Title: The Giving Pledge Expands To China With Its Latest Round Of Philanthropic Billionaires
description: Seventeen billionaires just declared that they fully expect end their lives a lot poorer, but the world may wind up far richer for it.
That's the number of new signatories who've committed to the Giving Pledge, an annual oath launched in 2010 by Warren Buffett and Bill and Melinda Gates in which billionaires publicly promise to give more than half their wealth to charitable causes. The catch: It has to happen either within their lifetime or in their will. The point is to try to make an impact quickly, rather than start a foundation that continues in perpetuity.
The full list of new Giving Pledge members:
Margaret and Sylvan Adams (Israel)
HRH Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal Bin Abdulaziz AlSaud (Saudi Arabia)
Marc and Lynne Benioff (U.S.)
Nathan and Elizabeth Blecharczyk (U.S.)
Brian Chesky (U.S.)
Scott Cook and Signe Ostby (U.S.)
Jack and Laura Dangermond (U.S.)
Henry Engelhardt, CBE and Diane Briere de l'Isle-Engelhardt, OBE (UK)
Joe Gebbia (U.S.)
Sir Tom and Lady Marion Hunger (UK)
Robert and Arlene Kogod (U.S.)
Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw (India)
PNC and Sobha Menon (UAE)
Gary K. Michelson, M.D. (U.S.)
Gensheng Niu (China)
Liz Simons and Mark Heising (U.S.)
Dr. Herbert and Nicole Wertheim (U.S.)
After six years or recruiting, the Giving Pledge's total class now consists of 154 people from 16 countries. Each inductee chooses their own cause, something they probably could have done on their own. That is, if they were smart enough to execute it. On the flip side, signing the pledge gives each billionaire access perhaps the world's most exclusive boardroom. As Gates puts it in his press release, the communal goal is to give in a "bold and effective" way. "Melinda, Warren and I are glad to have the opportunity to learn with them and learn from them," he says.
For instance, this is a crew that holds an annual conference to share ideas on solving issues other than their designated pet problems. This year's topics included re-thinking how to empower women in the global economy, fix the environment, spur urban renewal, and fund scientific game-changers. In other words no one's splurging here. Why make it rain just once when you can spend your largess wisely, creating social good that can actually scale?
To that end, this year's list marks a couple of firsts. It's the first time that representatives from Saudi Arabia (Saudi prince Alwaleed Bin Talal Bin Abdulaziz Al Saud) and China (dairy magnate Gensheng Niu) have climbed aboard. Because of the esteem that comes with joining up, it's safe to say that those representations could be considered establishing a foothold in a new market. And leveraging Chinese power for the greater good could have an especially big return. That country has the second most billionaires after the U.S. (The current ledger: America 540, China 251. But add up who's earning big in the entire Asia-Pacific region, and their stack of golden wallets would quickly dwarf ours.) So far, there's little danger of the GivingPledge running out of potential candidates. Per Forbes, the world has minted more than 1,800 billionaires.
Leveraging Chinese power for the greater good could have an especially big return. That country has the second most billionaires after the U.S.
This is also the first year that one company's entire founding team has signed on at the same time. (Unless you count 2010 when Paul Allen signed the pledge right after Gates started it.) That honor belongs to Airbnb co-founders Brian Chesky, Joe Gebbia, and Nathan Blecharczyk. (You can read the bios of all 17 of the new signatories here).
In a way, the Airbnb signups seem representative of the sort cultural shift that Warren, Bill and Melinda were probably seeking. GivingPledgers certainly join at all ages and from across all industries. (The oldest, banker David Rockefeller is 100.) Still, there seems to be a movement afoot. A couple of years ago, a couple of hip Groupon execs signed the pledge in close succession. Then came Facebook alum Mark Zuckerberg and Priscilla Chan, along with Dustin Moskovitz and Cari Tuna.
Turns out, it's okay to be building a company while giving away a substantial amount of what you're taking home. The payoff is that you can afford to save the world while you're still living in it.
Have something to say about this article? You can email us and let us know. If it's interesting and thoughtful, we may publish your response.
This article was written by Ben Paynter from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Alicia Keys Embraces #NoMakeup, and Its Actually Super Inspiring
description: Artists frequently claim their latest work is more "real" or "raw" than anything they've done before. It's become such a clich that we were skeptical when Alicia Keys described her forthcoming album as the most honest and uncensored yet. But the singer's recent story in Lenny Letter shows she's walking the walk. She explains how the pressure for perfection has affected her over the years:
"Every time I left the house, I would be worried if I didn't put on makeup: What if someone wanted a picture?? What if they POSTED it??? These were the insecure, superficial, but honest thoughts I was thinking. And all of it, one way or another, was based too much on what other people thought of me."
That led to Keys promoting her new single "In Common" with a makeup-free photo:
Keys hopes her #NoMakeup photo will inspire others, but it's about more than beauty productsshe also wants to address our impulse to cover up:"I don't want to cover up anymore. Not my face, not my mind, not my soul, not my thoughts, not my dreams, not my struggles, not my emotional growth. Nothing."
To check out the full story in Lenny Letter, click the link below.
Read the Rest
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Why Getting a Base Tan Is a Terrible Idea
description: Step inside a tanning salon and you'll see government-mandated signs calling out health risks: premature aging, skin cancer, and eye damagejust to name a few. Still, a 2014 study by JAMA Dermatology showed 35 percent of adults and 59 percent of university students in the United States have been indoor tanning.
Even if you don't go regularly, you may have used a tanning bed once or twice to get a base tan before vacation. The assumption is that base tans reduce burns by increasing melanin, the pigment that protects you from UV damage and is responsible for skin tone. But that protection is minimal. "Having a tan does mean that your skin has increased melanin, but the added protection is equivalent to an SPF of 3 to 4," Nazanin Saedi, M.D. of Thomas Jefferson University, says.
Getting a base tan before you go on vacation is the equivalent of smoking a pack of cigarettes before you go into a coal mine.
In fact, base tans just cause more harm. "Getting a base tan before you go on vacation is the equivalent of smoking a pack of cigarettes before going into a coal mine," J. Scott Kasteler, M.D., says. "All you're doing is adding to the damage."
The takeaway? Embrace your pasty shade and use sunscreen. If you're sold on the bronzed look, Saedi suggests sticking to spray tans. Above all, remember that there's no such thing as a healthy tan. "Any kind of tan is the body's response to the skin being damaged," Saedi says.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Do Probiotics Actually Work?
description: Well be the first to admit weve gone a little cuckoo for kombucha. But as much as we love the fermented drink, we may need to rein in our enthusiasm for itand similar gut-friendly goodies. As this video from The Atlantic points out, there's not enough scientific evidence to actually support the probiotic craze. What we do know is this: A high-fiber, minimally processed diet is your best bet for a healthy gut. Bacteria thrive on the fiber found in whole foods, and fiber transforms into short-chain fatty acids, which help regulate the immune and digestive systems.
So go ahead and keep sippin small-batch kombucha if you like the taste, but you may want to hold off on probiotic pills until researchers find a kind that improves gut health in scientific studies.
This article was written by Alex Dunne from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Leg Contouring Is a Thing, and It's Absolutely Absurd
description: Makeup can be an art form (if you need proof, check this out), but Cosmo's how-to video for leg contouring (see below) crosses the line into the absurd. Toned quads and calves are greatthey can help you run fast and lift heavy thingsbut painting them on to achieve an ideal bikini body is another story.
Its comforting to know were not alone in thinking leg contouring is ridiculous. Here are some of the top Facebook comments calling out Cosmo:
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Demanding That Nonprofits Not Pay For Overhead Is Preventing Them From Doing Good
description: Earlier this year, the popular veterans organization, Wounded Warrior Project, was rocked by a series of bad press. An investigation by The New York Times found that while the organization was raising an impressive $372 million in donations each year, a big chunk of that money wasn't going to veterans. Instead, the top executives were shelling out nearly 40% of their annual revenues to indulge business-class travel, expensive hotel stays, fanciful employee conferences, and their own exorbitant salaries.
While the Wounded Warrior Project's expenses were laughably tone-deaf, the affair highlights a major issue in the world of nonprofit funding: When foundations or individuals donate to an organization, they often expect their money is going to triage the issueproviding clean water, feeding childrenand not to paying for office space or corporate retreats for nonprofit workers. To solve this, most foundations pay only up to 15% of any socially good group's indirect costs, things like office space, salaries, or equipment.
cgdeaw via Shutterstock
But a new report from Bridgespan, a consulting firm for nonprofits and philanthropists, says this is incredibly damaging. The result is a "starvation cycle" in which foundations are crippling the outfits they're trying to support. In the commercial world, investors have come to expect that companies in different spaces require different overhead. There is no boilerplate expense sheet. That's a lesson nonprofit funders have failed to learn.
"What you need to invest in as a nonprofit depends on what you are doing," says Jeri Eckhart-Queenan, the lead author on the report. "A number of foundations have these flat-rate policies where they treat all nonprofits the same. That is the big ah-ha, here. We've had a very failed understanding of what it takes to get the job done."
The fix: Bridgespan is calling for a new era of "Pay-What-It-Takes" philanthropyin essence, that grant makers need to figure out what amount of indirect costs per mission are normal, then pony up and pay them.
So far, the strategy has at least one major ally. In January, Ford Foundation president Darren Walker promised to increase grant money earmarked for indirect costs to 20%, doubling their previous standard. He's called the previous funding threshold a "charade" and the "overhead fiction."
This is especially important at a time when some nonprofits appear to be struggling to understand even their own finances. According to a recent report by Oliver Wyman and Seachange Capital Partners only 30% of New York nonprofits can be considered "financially strong"and "many trustees do not understand the financial condition of their organization or how it compares to its peers."
Dario Sabljak via Shutterstock
IDENTIFYING THE PROBLEM
Bridgespan has warned that nonprofits were being shortchanged this way before. That "starvation cycle" terminology dates back to 2009, when the firm pointed out that research by the Urban Institute's National Center for Charitable Statistics and Center on Philanthropy at Indiana University showed many NPOs with revenues over $100,000 still suffered from broken computers, untrained staff, and janky office furniture.
Part of the problem is that many funders have become obsessed with measuring their impact on a per-dollar basis, which means they're more eager to give to specific projects than the institutional upkeep that supports them. But the 15% overhead limit doesn't even parallel what commercial companies shell out. According to Bridgespan's research, the average S&P 500 firm spends about 34% of their budget on essential behind-the-scenes support. For IT companies it's more like 78%, the report notes. Some 21st-century nonprofits probably require the same kind of tech firepower.
In a survey of 20 high-profile nonprofits, Bridgespan found that indirect coststhose that don't go to programs or services, including fundraisingranged from 21% to 89% of each group's overall spending. To splice that data a more telling way, Bridgespan divided the nonprofit industry into four main sectors: U.S.-based direct service, policy and advocacy organizations, international networks, and research organizations.
How money gets spent by Save the Children would be drastically different than, say, the biohazard laboratory required at the Center for Infectious Disease Research. (One probably needs more counter space and test tubes.) So Bridgespan then divided each industry's expenses into a series of categories: administrative expenses, network and field costs, physical assets and knowledge management. Many agencies opted to share data anonymously, but, by sector, there were strong similarities.
Bridgespan's takeaways: "Flat-rate reimbursement for indirect costs is conceptually wrong because it doesn't take into account the differences by segment," the report notes. And the given nonprofit reimbursement rate of 15% is definitely too low. "It doesn't represent the actual indirect costs it takes to run any of the nonprofits we analyzed."
SO WHAT'S THE FIX?
Let's start with the wrong way to solve this issue. In the Bridgespan report, one anonymous CEO noted that his or her group kept two budgets "one that has the real numbers, and another that shows the funders what they want to see." Another strategy might be to steal from one budget line item to cover for the shortfall in another. Such financial brinkmanship is fatally flawed, says study author Eckhart-Queenan, because it reinforces the idea that overhead is "a proxy for effectiveness or efficiency and it's neither." As Save the Children has learned, sometimes the back-end budget doesn't have any wiggle room. Because their indirects costs aren't fully covered, the group ends up having to cover the deficit with between $12 to $18 million of their "unrestricted funding" funds annually, the report notes.
Change may not happen immediately. But Bridgespan's report at least provides some basis for re-thinking what's broken. "To our knowledge, this is the first time that anyone has suggested there might be a different rule of thumb [for funding] by types of nonprofit," Eckhart-Queenan says. No doubt, the next generation of Silicon Valley do-gooders entering this field will understand what it takes to run a companyany company. Perhaps it's time for more grantmakers like Ford to audit their own behavior.
For nonprofits needing a crash course in indirect cost calculation, Bridgespan offers a tool here.
Have something to say about this article? You can email us and let us know. If it's interesting and thoughtful, we may publish your response.
This article was written by Ben Paynter from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Easing Drought Boosts California Hydropower, For Now
description: The easing of Californias drought has boosted the states early spring hydropower generation to its highest level since 2011, helping it to recover from a 15-year low reached last year. But hydroelectricity production is not expected to improve much overall this year, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.
The Wests four-year drought desiccated many reservoirs in California, the nations fourth largest hydropower producer, reducing their ability to generate electricity and forcing the state to rely on other renewables and more fossil fuels for its power supply.
Lake Isabella in Kern County, Calif., sits low amid the drought in 2013.
Credit: Don Barrett/flickr
Prior to the drought, hydropower produced nearly 40 percent of the states electricity during wet years, with natural gas producing most of the rest. Today, about 11 percent of the states electricity comes from hydropower and 52 percent comes from natural gas, with wind, solar and nuclear producing much of the rest.
Though hydropower generated at large reservoirs is not included in Californias climate goals, it is a major source of renewable electricity that helps offset the countrys reliance on coal for electricity.
California passed a law last year requiring 50 percent of the states power to come from wind, solar, biomass, geothermal energy and small hydroelectric sources by 2050.
{related}
Since the drought began in 2012, Californians burned an additional $2 billion worth of natural gas to make up for lost hydropower, increasing greenhouse gas emissions from the states electric power sector by 10 percent, said water and climate analyst Peter Gleick, president of the Oakland-based Pacific Institute, a global water think tank.
Californias hydropower boost follows El Nio-fueled storms, which marched across the state over the winter, helping to fill some reservoirs to above their historical averages, state data show.
Tim Shear, an economist at the U.S. Energy Information Administration, said the states hydropower production in March 2.77 million megawatt hours was the highest of any March since 2011.
(Your browser doesn't support iframe)Hydropower generation usually peaks each summer when reservoirs are swollen with snowmelt and rainfall. The 2015 peak occurred in July at about 1.9 million megawatt hours, the lowest annual peak since 2001.
Nearly-full reservoirs point to more hydropower generation for the short term, but it may not continue through through the summer.
Though the U.S. Climate Prediction Centers seasonal outlook shows that California is likely to receive average rainfall this summer, warmer-than-normal temperatures are expected, which will help evaporate water stored in hydroelectric reservoirs.
Gleick said he expects that Californias hydropower generation will recover only marginally this year.
Northern California received about an average amount of rainfall, but the reservoirs were extremely low and so less than an average amount of water was let go through the turbines, he said. I would estimate that 2015-2016 will be below average (for) hydropower again, though certainly better than last year.
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Best Protected Great Barrier Reef Corals Are Now Dead
description: The sweeping reefs growing off 200 steamy miles of remote Australian coastline
from Cairns to Cape Melville, home to sugar farms and dive resorts
contained some of the least damaged corals growing in one of the worlds best marine parks. Until now.
In stunning new findings that have laid bare the limitations of marine parks as defenses against rapid environmental change, more than half of the corals surveyed in large chunks of this pristine stretch of the Great Barrier Reef are expected to soon be dead.Seaweed beginning to blanket dying coral along a heavily impacted stretch of the Great Barrier Reef.
Credit:Dorothea Bender-Champ/ARC Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies
Reefs that are in better shape should fare better under climate change, said John Pandolfi, a University of Queensland professor who contributed to high-profile coral surveys, the results of which were released this week. But, in this case, we found huge instances of coral mortality.
The coral deaths followed intense coral bleaching, which was caused by global warming and influenced by the whims of the weather. Hot waters have caused corals worldwide to spit out the algae that provided their color and food. Those that cant cool down and find new algae quickly enough die.
{related}
The colorless coral corpses of north Queensland will soon be blanketed with mats of algae, and the hard skeletons will begin to crumble. It may take decades for the submerged wonders of what had recently been unspoiled reefs to resprout and recover from the wipeout,if they ever do.
Temperatures continue to rise worldwide. The amount of heat-trapping pollution released every year from fuel burning and deforestation has plateaued in recent years, while the amount of pollution in the atmosphere continues to pile up. Bleaching is caused primarily by warm waters, and the current worldwide bleaching is the third and worst on record, all since the late 1990s.
Things arent going to be as good as they are now
we can look forward to some very difficult times, Pandolfi said. The reef is going to continue to degrade.Credit:ARC Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies
Overall, 35 percent of the corals surveyed in the central and northern sections of the Great Barrier Reef were reported this week to be dead or dying. Scientists photographed and dove into 84 reefs and used six categories to score the condition of 200,000 corals. Dead corals could often be spotted by the algae that quickly grew over them.
The news from coral surveys south of the popular tourist city of Cairns was bleak, with about 5 percent of corals found dead or dying. But that was some 10 times better than the doom that befell reefs further north.
Corals south of Cairns appear to have been saved by the happenstance trajectory of a February cyclone, which washed them with cooler waters and churned up the sea. That protected them from the high temperatures and searing exposure to UV rays that killed so many of their cousins further north.
We dodged a bullet in the central portion of the reef this time, but no guarantees that will occur again, Pandolfi said. Nature is an incredibly complex place, and its very difficult to predict how future bleaching might play out.
The discovery of the collapse of sweeping sections of corals was viewed by scientists with so much urgency that they were not put through peer review before highlights were released to the media on Monday. James Cook University, which led the surveys, declined to provide detailed information about the sampling methods or analysis, making it difficult for journalists or other scientists to evaluate or interpret the findings.
The research is publicly funded, James Cook professor Terry Hughes said. I released our mortality results because, as a scientist, Im ethically obliged to inform people on an issue of national and international importance.Hughes said details about the methodology would eventually be published. Given the intensity of the research, there'll be many publications arising.
David Kline, a Scripps ecologist who wasnt involved with the coral surveys, said that he had complete confidence in the findings. Survey methods are pretty standardized, he said. They havent changed much in the last 30 or 40 years.
Emotions had been running high even before Mondays news release over the future of one of the worlds great natural wonders amid a two-year period of rapid global warming. Climate change made it 175 times more likely that Coral Sea temperatures would reach the high levels in March that triggered extensive bleaching, according to the results of a recent scientific analysis.
Climate research and Great Barrier Reef management are both hot political issues in Australia, where a federal election will be held next month.
The Australian government has been criticized for failing to protect the reef from agricultural pollution and other threats, including coal mining. Following a request from Australia, the United Nationsrecently removed informationabout threats to the Great Barrier Reef from a report dealing with climate change and world heritage.
The north Queensland coral wipeout occurred around the same time that global temperature rise was reaching the halfway point toward the 3.6F of warming that a new United Nations treaty aims to prevent. Countries havent yet committed under the Paris Agreement to take the steps needed to prevent that level of warming. Years of further negotiations are planned.Viewed across a river from Cooktown, part of the remote Queensland coastline along which coral mortality rates were highest.
Credit:John Benwell/flickr
The extent of the coral wipeout was particularly remarkable because it occurred inside one of the worlds best protected natural areas. Fishing restrictions and other rules are in place to protect reefs that serve as nurseries for large fisheries and as drawing cards for a tourism-heavy economy.
The coral animal is the keystone species on a coral reef
like the trees in a forest, Kline said. When the corals die you lose the three-dimensional structure thats really important. A lot of these fish, their larval stages depend on hiding in among the corals to hide from predators.
Kline said the Great Barrier Reef is inside whats considered to be one of the best managed and most successful marine parks in the world.
Large marine parks have been created around the world in rapid succession during the last decade, quadrupling the amount of protected ocean to nearly 4 percent. The U.N. aims to see 10 percent protected by 2020.
In other parts of the world, weve had mortality events this severe, Kline said. But everyone thought with the Great Barrier Reef marine protected area that, hopefully, we wouldnt see mortality events as high.
Kline said that means the future of coral reef environments will depend on local strategies for protecting them
in addition to a global curbing of greenhouse gas pollution. Such strategies may include farming and transplanting corals and creating artificial reefs from concrete and other material.
Clearly, marine reserves on their own arent enough, Kline said.
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The Best Strength Moves You Can Do With a Foam Roller
description: We know foam rolling (a form of self-myofascial release or self-massage) boasts big benefits such as easing muscle soreness and aiding recovery.1 But the foam roller's round, unstable design also makes it a useful tool for challenging your balance and building strength. Doing a plank on the roller or balancing your feet on it creates instability for strength-based movements, which causes you to engage more muscles to stabilize and will, in turn, make you stronger, says Joselynne Boschen, Nike Master trainer.
We rounded up the 15 best strength moves you can do with a foam roller. Warm up by rolling out some commonly tight spots, then get down to business, focusing on keeping your core engaged and stabilized throughout. Ready to roll?
How to Use This List
Create your own workout: Pick 2 moves from each section below (upper body, lower body, and core), then do Plank Jacks as the 7th move for cardio. Do 10 to 20 reps of each move. Repeat the full circuit a total of 3 or 4 times.
Try ours: Follow Boschen's workout at the end of this list.
Upper Body1. Overhead Squat
Stand with feet turned out, slightly wider than hip width. Extend arms overhead while holding roller horizontally. Squeeze palms toward each other as you draw shoulder blades together. Keep elbows in line with or behind ears to engage upper back and arms. Send hips back to sit into a deep squat. Press up through heels to return to starting position.2. Side Rollout Push-Up
Start in a modified push-up position with knees on mat, left hand on roller, and right hand on floor. Slowly lower weight with right arm as left arm stays straight and roller works its way from fingertips to wrist.
Make it harder: Lift knees to a traditional push-up position.3. Table Roll
Sit upright with legs extended and ankles on foam roller. Place hands on floor behind you, fingertips facing feet. With straight legs, thrust hips up as high as you can and look toward ceiling as roller moves up calves. Keeping hips lifted, slowly swing them back between arms as roller moves to heels. Continue going back and forth in a controlled movement without letting hips touch floor.
Make it easier: Turn fingertips away from you.4. Plank Jack
Start in plank position with hands on roller directly under shoulders. Hop feet open and closed as you would for a jumping jack, staying on toes. Keep a slight bend in knees as you land.
Make it harder: Increase speed and intensity to engage core more.5. Airplane
Stand on both feet and hold roller behind back with fingertips facing away. Transfer weight onto right leg and lift left leg into an airplane position (or warrior III for yogis) as chest hinges forward. Squeeze shoulder blades together and away from ears. Pulse the roller up about 3 inches toward ceiling. Keep arms as straight as possible to activate triceps, delts, and lats.
Lower Body6. Hamstring Bridge
Lie faceup with palms facing down and foam roller under feet. Lift hips into a bridge position so hips, knees, and heels are in line. With control, slowly rock foam roller forward and backward. Engage hamstrings to keep roller from slipping.
Make it harder: Place palms on ground facing up.7. Plank Leg Lift
Start on all fours with hands on roller. Lift knees to plank position and engage core. Raise right leg about 4 inches, then sweep foot out to the right, pause for 1 count, sweep leg back behind you, and lower to the floor. (Think: up, out, in, down.)8. Single Leg Wall Squat
Lean against wall and sit so knees are at a 90-degree angle. Place roller horizontally behind back, just below shoulder blades, and extend both arms. Raise right flexed foot off ground, keeping knees in line and hips level. Push through left heel to stand about 3 inches, using roller to slide up wall, then return to starting position. Repeat on other side.9. Inner Thigh Bridge
Lie faceup with knees bent, feet on floor, and palms up. Place foam roller between legs and flex feet to balance on heels. Lift hips off floor and squeeze roller like you're trying to break it. Hold for 45 seconds then lower back down.10. Inner Thigh Plank
Lie facedown with roller between inner thighs. Press up into a high plank. With weight over wrists and core engaged, squeeze roller and bend knees until they hover an inch off the ground. Press back into heels to return to starting position. Keep core engaged and still throughout.
Core11. Alternating Heel Tap
Lie faceup with roller vertically under spine. Place fingertips on floor as you lift legs into tabletop position. Holding the 90-degree angle, tap heel to floor one at a time.
Make it harder: Tap heels faster and keep lower abs firing by pressing low back into roller.12. Sawing Plank
Start with wrists on foam roller in a forearm plank with hands clasped together, feet hip width, and hips level. Use arms to rock back and forth slowly so roller moves from wrists to elbows, challenging your stability.13. Side Plank Reach Through
Lie on right side. Place feet on roller like you're on a tight rope with right foot in front. Lift hips to a side plank, balancing on right forearm and sides of feet, and extend left arm to ceiling. Thread left arm under torso as you pike hips. (Imagine a claw pulling hips straight up.)14. Walking Plank
Place roller vertically between arms and legs while you hold a high plank. Make sure shoulders are over wrists and feet are wider than hips for stability. Place right hand then left hand on roller and walk hands back to floor one at a time. Alternate the hand you start with and the hand you place in front of the other on the roller. Keep core engaged and hips steady throughout.
Make it easier: Put a towel alongside the roller to keep it from moving15. Dead Bug
Lie faceup with roller vertically under spine. Lift legs into tabletop position. Place arms on floor in cactus position (elbows bent in line with shoulders, backs of hands on floor). As you press backs of hands into the floor and lower back into the roller, kick legs out, then bend knees to return to tabletop.Special thanks to Joselynne Boschen, Nike Master trainer and Lifesum brand ambassador, who curated and modeled these moves for us. Boschen wears her own Nike gear and uses a TriggerPoint Performance foam roller. Follow her on Instagram and Twitter.
Works Cited
THE EFFECTS OF SELF-MYOFASCIAL RELEASE USING A FOAM ROLL OR ROLLER MASSAGER ON JOINT RANGE OF MOTION, MUSCLE RECOVERY, AND PERFORMANCE: A SYSTEMATIC REVIEW. Cheatham SW, Kolber MJ, Cain M. International journal of sports physical therapy, 2015, Nov.;10(6):2159-2896. Foam rolling as a recovery tool after an intense bout of physical activity. Macdonald GZ, Button DC, Drinkwater EJ. Medicine and science in sports and exercise, 2014, Sep.;46(1):1530-0315.
This article was written by molly ritterbeck from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Give Directly To The Homeless Through A New Sharing Economy App
description: If you live in Seattle and want to help some of the 4,500 people living on the streets, here's a new way: You can make a donation at WeCount, a new service that matches the needs of the homeless with the spare resources of a local community.
Founders Jonathan Sposato and Graham Pruss liken WeCount to platforms like Airbnb or Lyft, except the goods and services on offer aren't vacations or taxi rides, but rather sleeping bags and tents. The homeless list items they need while members of the public list items to donate. The platform then links up the two sides, arranging delivery, and allowing donors and donees to stay in touch if they wish.
"One advantage here is that it's completely painless," says Sposato, a tech entrepreneur who's sold two companies to Google. "It's super easy for me to engage in activity where I can be helpful for someone whereas traditional giving is a little less personal. You don't get a sense of really impacting a specific individual."
WeCount, a nonprofit, is partnered with the City of Seattle's Human Services Department, and groups like Union Gospel Mission, Facing Homelessness, and the local YMCA. It has 25 branded drop-off points in the Seattle area where the homeless can pick up donated items. They're all from a prescribed list of 200 items ranging from socks to clothes for an interview. You can't donate money directly to individuals, though WeCount itself plans to accept money for its own upkeep.
Last year, Seattle's mayor declared homelessness in the city to be an "emergency." But Pruss, who has worked for several homelessness nonprofits, says the problem isn't necessarily a lack of resourcesit's as much a failure to distribute those resources more effectively.
"While there is a huge amount of need, there is actually a huge amount of services and a lot of people who want to help. Often there's a disconnect in communication as individuals haven't been able to express what truly would be able to help them," he says.
Pruss hopes that when the homeless use WeCount, they'll find out about other opportunities available, whether it's permanent housing or job training. "We hope we can get it beyond the, 'How do we get the things that improve this person's life to tonight?' to 'How do we improve their lives tomorrow?'" he says.
Have something to say about this article? You can email us and let us know. If it's interesting and thoughtful, we may publish your response.
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Can Shark-Spotting Drones Actually Spot Sharks?
description: The problem with something like Australia's shark-detecting drone, the "Little Ripper," is that you don't know when it doesn't spot a shark. That's why the latest shark-spotting drone project from Duke University is focused on finding out how good the drones are at actually spotting sharks. After all, you only need to miss one to end up with a disaster.
"This is one of the first studies aimed at understanding how well we're able to detect sharks, and that's a key component for any kind of operational use," Dave Johnston of Duke's Marine Lab said in a video produced by the university. "For example, if you wanted to fly the drones along a beach to see if there were sharks there, you'd really want to know how likely you were to see sharks with that type of technology."
Duke's Marine Lab, based in Beaufort, North Carolina, is carrying out a study to determine how well its drones can detect sharks. The main component is shark decoys. The team releases the plywood sharks into the water, and then sends up the dronea small autonomous plane that looks like one of Batman's gadgetsto see if it can spot them. So far the success rate is good, as long as the sharks are close to the surface.
"Our surveys so far are telling us if the sharks are there and they're less than a meter deep, or a little past a meter deep, then we should be able to detect them even when the water is murky," says Johnston.(Your browser doesn't support iframe)The drones are tuned to spot bonnethead sharks, but the eventual plan is to make the technology available to other researchers and to expand it to detect any kind of shark. In fact, the possible uses of the technology go even further than just tracking sharks near occupied beaches. The Marine Lab is also working on detecting sea turtles and seals, as well as analyzing marine debris on remote beaches. These are useful for tracking the patterns of movement and the sizes of the populations of marine species, as well as getting an idea of pollution at a local and a global level.
But mostly, a reliable shark-spotting drone is great for surfers. After all, which shark forecast would you trust, the one that says it hasn't spotted anythingyetor the one that can say for sure that there are no sharks nearby?
Have something to say about this article? You can email us and let us know. If it's interesting and thoughtful, we may publish your response.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: In A First, More Young Adults Now Live With Parents Than Partners
description: Be careful next time you accuse someone of living "in their mom's basement," because more likely than not they actually do still live with their parents. As of 2014, according to the Pew Research Center, 18-34 year-olds are more likely to be living with mom or dad than they are to be shacked up with a romantic partner. This is the first time since 1870 that kids have gotten so square.
The numbers break down like this: According to the 2014 figures, 31.6% of young adults are living with a partner or spouse in their own home, whereas 32.1% share a home with one or both parents. That's not a huge difference on its own, but as part of a trend it is significant. Back in 1960, just before the time of free love andit seemseven freer living arrangements, 62% of people in this age group had set up home with a partner of some kind.
The arrangements differ between boys and girls too, with young men more likely to still be living with parents. In fact, living with the folks has been the dominant arrangement for young males since 2009, whereas the (slight) majority of young women still move in with a partner. Another 14% of younger adults live on their own, in their own place.
So why are we hanging onto the apron-strings for so much longer? Overall, it's a mixture of money and marriage. Or the lack of both. Young people are marrying later than in the past, and those that are marrying don't necessarily take the traditional route of buying a starter home and moving in together. And economically, young people just aren't earning as much as in the past. Pew's figures show that employed youngsters are far more likely than the unemployed ones to move out of the family home.
Education also plays a part. While the trend is the same for both college-educated young adults, and for those who haven't completed a bachelor's degree or better, the actual numbers are quite different. Of non-college-educated folks, 36% live at home, versus 27% who have moved out. For those with a degree, 46% are in their own homes, compared to just 19% who still live with parents.
There are also ethnic and racial differences. Whereas the majority of young white adults has lived at home since 2009, most young black adults have been staying with their parents since 1980, Hispanics since 2011, and Native Americans/Alaskans since 2007. Most Asians and Pacific Islanders still live with a partner.
So while culture plays a big role in when kids fly the coop, the changes over time seem to be mostly down to motivation. Kids stay at home until they either a) fall in love or b) get a decent job. In some sense, then, not much has changed at all.
Have something to say about this article? You can email us and let us know. If it's interesting and thoughtful, we may publish your response.
Cover Photo: Flickr user Connie Ma
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The World's First Floating Urban Dairy Farm Will Be Built In Rotterdam
description: Most urban farming startups produce just a handful of foodsoften greens and herbsand most urban farmers would say that only a fraction of total food will ultimately be grown in cities. A new project in the Netherlands demonstrates how much more is possible. The Floating Farm will be home to 60 urban dairy cows that will produce local milk, cheese, cream, butter, and yogurt.
"Our idea is to create as much food as we can locally," says Peter van Wingerden, director of Beladon, a building developer that specializes in floating structures and that envisions building fully floating cities in the future.
"The long-term idea is to create cities that are completely self-sufficient on essential elements like clean water, energy, food, and wasteto create this inside these cities on oceans," he says.
The company was inspired in part after Hurricane Sandy, when New Yorkers were reminded how quickly food can disappear. After a disaster, if routes are blocked or delivery trucks can't refueland if consumers empty out shelves in grocery storesfood in the city might only last for three days.
Beladon sees the water as an ideal place to produce more urban food. "If you want to produce food near consumers, then you look at the major cities, and there is not so much space in these cities," says van Wingerden. "One of the spaces we do have is the water and the ports. The ports and rivers were always used in the past as logistics hubswe say now rivers are becoming life essentials."
To grow the same amount on land would take 30 to 50 times more space.
The new Floating Farm, which is expected to be completed in January 2017, will grow food for the cows on board. Over the last nine months, the designers have been working with a local university and Philips, the lighting manufacturer, to test different seeds and LED lights to grow the most grass possible. In an experiment, they produced about 15% of the food the cows will eat, and plan to get to 20%. To grow the same amount on land would take 30 to 50 times more space; modern vertical farming technology shrinks the area needed.
The grass is also better for the cows than what they would eat in a rural field. "The type of grass we are producing year-round is very healthy and vitamin-rich," he says. "So we're also producing a healthier milk."
Inside, each cow will have about 160 square feet of space, far more than industrial dairies. The company is carefully working to ensure that the animals are comfortable. The soft, permeable floor will use new technology to automatically separate urine and manure; a "manure robot" will collect manure, which will be turned into blocks to be burned to create heat and energy for the farm, and also partly turned into fertilizer. Nutrients will be extracted from the urine.
The farm will also act as an educational platform, so local schools can bring students to learn where their milk or cheese comes from. Seeing the platform may also change expectations about the possibilities of producing more food in cities.
"I think the biggest challenge is not the technology," says van Wingerden. "The technology we have right now in our hands. We can do it. The biggest change is more the ideathe political will of changing the concept of producing food far from consumers."
Have something to say about this article? You can email us and let us know. If it's interesting and thoughtful, we may publish your response.
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 14 Low-Carb Breakfasts That Go Way Beyond Eggs
description: Everywhere you look, people are taking all sorts of measures to reduce their daily dose of carbs. In the new low-carb wonderland, starch-free stand-ins like zoodles and cauliflower rice have emerged to provide endless nutrient-dense lunch and dinner possibilities. But what about that first meal of the day? Where do you turn when cereal and bagels are off-limits?
If you're trying to cut back on carbs, breakfast can quickly start to feel unbelievably mundane (Oh, eggs... again). Lucky for you, weve got 14 delicious low-carb recipes you can whip up faster than you can say "hold the toast, please."Photo: The Brick Kitchen1. Roasted Eggplant Shakshuka
Carbs per serving: 16 grams
Want to impress your friends? Serve this super healthy, restaurant-quality shakshuka right out of the pan. The eggplant offers a good dose of fiber, while oozy eggs and crumbled feta ensure every bite is packed with flavor.Photo: Minimalist Baker2. Simple Grain-Free Granola
Carbs per serving: 10.6 grams
This recipe replaces rolled oats with nuts (hello, healthy fats!) and has much less sugar than most traditional granolas. Sprinkle it on a serving of protein-packed Greek yogurt for a more complete breakfast, or just grab a handful to munch as you run out the door.Photo: Grok Grub3. Smoked Salmon Egg-Stuffed Avocado
Carbs per serving: 13 grams
Packed with heart-healthy omega-3 fatty acids, thanks to the salmon, and cholesterol-lowering monounsaturated fats, thanks to the avocado, you have our permission to grab a spoon and dig in. No plates or bowls necessary.Photo: Girl Versus Dough4. Coconut Flour Pancakes
Carbs per serving: 2.75 grams
Just because youre eating low-carb doesn't mean you can't have your (pan)cake and eat it too. Coconut flour comes to the rescue here as a fiber-rich alternative to all-purpose flour. Feeling wild? Treat yourself to one tablespoon of maple syrup (13 g carbs), and you'll still be within a low-carb quota.Photo: Elana's Pantry5. Paleo Bagels
Carbs per serving: 8 grams
No, we aren't duping you. This is a high-protein (12 grams), low-carb bite with all that everything-bagel essence sprinkled on top. Our recommendation: Schmear each side with cream cheese, layer with smoked salmon, and top with sliced red onion. Mind. Blown.Photo: The Low-Carb Diet6. Berry Nut Low-Carb Cereal
Carbs per serving: 13 grams
For those with no time in the morning, this one is almost as easy as pouring cereal from the boxbut less processed and without all the added sugar. Antioxdant-loaded almonds, walnuts, and pecans replace your usual grains, while berries add a perfect level of sweetness.1
Works Cited
Tree nut phytochemicals: composition, antioxidant capacity, bioactivity, impact factors. A systematic review of almonds, Brazils, cashews, hazelnuts, macadamias, pecans, pine nuts, pistachios and walnuts. Bolling BW, Chen CY, McKay DL. Nutrition research reviews, 2011, Dec.;24(2):1475-2700.
Photo: Paleo Leap7. Stuffed Breakfast Peppers
Carbs per serving: 14 grams
Get your daily dose of vitamin C with this antioxidant-rich meal.1 (Seriously, did you know that yellow bell peppers actually have way more vitamin C than your average orange?) It's veggies stuffed with more veggies. 'Nuff said.
Works Cited
Antioxidant activities of different colored sweet bell peppers (Capsicum annuum L.). Sun T, Xu Z, Wu CT. Journal of food science, 2007, Dec.;72(2):1750-3841.
Photo: Capturing Joy8. Blueberry Coconut Protein Pops
Carbs per serving: 7 grams
Using just three ingredientslow-glycemic blueberries, coconut milk, and yogurtthese cool, summery treats could easily be served as a poolside snack. We suggest pairing with your fave protein source for a more complete and filling breakfast.Photo: Will Cook for Friends9. Crustless Mini Quiche
Carbs per serving: 2 grams
Who doesn't love a hand-held quiche? Perfect for a satisfying and portable breakfast, this meal also comes with a whopping 11 grams of protein. Enjoy infinite possibilities of veggie combinations.Photo: Cook Eat Paleo10. Paleo "Instant Oatmeal"
Carbs per serving: 23 grams
If you said a tearful goodbye to carb-heavy oatmeal ages ago, now is your time to rejoice. This recipe combines shredded coconut, almond flour, and cashew milk for a dish that won't leave you hangry mid-morning. Just consider it comfort in a bowl with way fewer carbs.Photo: Cafe Delites11. Caprese Frittata
Carbs per serving: 1.8 grams
It's basically a margherita breakfast pizza with tangy balsamic on a high-protein egg crust. And unlike many low-carb recipes, this one is also low in calories, with just 108 per serving.Photo: Chirpy12. Low-Carb Breakfast Burrito
Carbs per serving: 8 grams
This burrito is basically the love child of a BLT and an omelet. You can sub in turkey bacon to make it even lighter, but either way, with 14 grams of high-quality protein, this breakfast certainly beats the fast-food kind.Photo: Chirpy13. Low-Carb Sunrise Benedict
Carbs per serving: 16 grams
Say goodbye to those mid-morning munchies. This high-protein (30 grams!) power benny will keep you going all morning long, thanks to the portobello mushroom that takes the place of your usual English muffin. Need a quick egg-poaching tutorial? Check it out here!Photo: Low Carb Yum14. Cloud Bread Cheese Danish
Carbs per serving: 1.1 grams
Thanks to the cloud bread basewhich is made with cream cheese and eggseach Danish has a surprising amount of protein and virtually no sugar. Enjoy one (or two) to start your day on a delicious note.
This article was written by Jenna Kaufman-Ross from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Millennials Are Reshaping The World Of Social Impact
description: Stories about millennials are unavoidable in the media today. We've all heard how they're knocking at the door to the corner office and already taking the lead in politics, business, philanthropy, and everywhere else. Like the boomers in their day, millennials will be the largest proportion of any generation in the U.S. workforce by 2025, and their unique set of characteristics will reshape our world. But too often, their uniqueness is being viewed with apprehension, as the entire demographic is painted with critical terms like self-centered, careerist, apathetic, coddled, materialistic, and unfocused. The suggestion seems to be that they aren't up to meeting the challenges we face as a nation and a world. Even more problematic, when it comes to marketing products, the term "millennial" has become almost synonymous with the narrow slice of the larger generation who is white and upwardly mobile.
Millennials from diverse backgrounds and sectors are fearlessly ignoring the negative chatter about their generation and instead are showing us the future.
We beg to differ on both points, because we've seen what millennial leaders are capable of. Our two organizations, the nonprofit venture philanthropy fund New Profit and the professional services firm Deloitte, have collaborated for 15 years to help visionary social entrepreneurs build high-impact organizations and problem-solving ecosystems, with a goal of breaking down the systemic barriers standing between people and opportunity in America. We have seen every type of leader, organization, and approach during that time, so we're rarely surprised. But recently, we've been amazed to meet millennials from diverse backgrounds and sectors who are fearlessly ignoring the negative chatter about their generation and instead are showing us the future. We want to introduce you to a few people and groups that show how this unique generation is already changing the way we live, work, and solve problems:
Vedette Gavin and Derwin Dubose, New Majority Community Labs (NMCL): Created to shift power from social sector institutions, most of which lack demographic and socioeconomic diversity, to people and communities, NMCL uses the power of big data to amplify the effectiveness of on-the-ground organizing. As cofounder Vedette Gavin said recently, "Don't create a plan to help me without including me!" NMCL hires people in communities to collect and analyze data, then works with them to create locally led, locally funded solutions. While still in the seed stage, NMCL has already launched a program in the under-resourced Ivy City neighborhood of Washington, D.C. And bigger expansion plans are in the works.
The MBA students at the Deloitte Foundation's national case competition: For the first time this year, the Deloitte Foundation focused its annual case competition on social impact, asking MBA students to craft a new organizational strategy for New Profit, rather than the classic profit-oriented corporate puzzles. The students were given less than 12 hours to immerse themselves in complex issues relating to the evolution of philanthropy and the social entrepreneurship movement and prepare a presentation for senior leaders from Deloitte and the social impact community. We were absolutely amazed at their insightfulness, energy, and passion.
Alejandro Gac-Artigas, Springboard Collaborative: With a mission to close the reading achievement gap, Springboard Collaborative takes a unique in-sourced staffing approach by training public school teachers to collaborate with parents on reading achievement, using an ingeniously inexpensive approach that works within existing budgets to build lasting internal capacity in schools. Springboard Collaborative is truly redefining parent-teacher collaboration and, in turn, transforming school communities and optimizing student-learning outcomes.
This is just a sampling of what we've seen among millennials who are taking different routes toward social impact in different sectors. Contrary to the critics, we see three traits in common across the best and brightest of this generation that give us good reason to believe in their ability to make real headway on deeply rooted social challenges:
Millennials understand that social problem solving is collaborative and multifaceted
The venture philanthropy movement, and much of philanthropy more broadly, has long been focused on finding and scaling great nonprofits as an avenue to systemic change. This is an important approach, but we've found that it doesn't go far enough or fast enough to solve big problems. The philanthropic sector, with more millennials involved, is now starting to work in partnership with others from government and business, putting more focus on collaborative, cross-sector approaches.
Millennials do not recognize the walls between sectors
They are pursuing social impact wherever they are, starting organizations that blur the lines between for-profit and nonprofit, making values-driven buying decisions, and looking at cross-sector collaboration as required for social problem solving. It's almost as if there never had been an assumption that driving social change was only the job of the social sector.
Millennials prioritize substance (impact) over style
In a social media-driven world where millennials seem to flock to the flashiest new product or trend, we are inspired to see how millennials also focus so sharply on impact. Millennials make decisions based on personal values first and foremost, and the pursuit to maximize impact is at the center of what shapes all of their thinking and choices.
All of this points to millennials holding considerable potential for shaking up our pursuit of social impact in a very good way. Where today's world has scattered experiments in new models that we know to have potentialefforts to put outcomes ahead of organizational missions, pursue multipronged solutions, seamlessly combine the strengths of all sectors, and manage even profit-seeking organizations based on strong valuesmillennials are poised to learn from those experiments and make them the norm.
As we strive to make America a more equitable playing field, how can we not only invent new models but also improve the structures that already stand? That is a question that, more than any other generation, millennials need to lead the way in answering.
Vanessa Kirsch is the founder and CEO of New Profit, a venture philanthropy fund that works to break down systemic barriers to opportunity in America.
Dana O'Donovan is a director with Deloitte Consulting and COO of Monitor Institute.
Have something to say about this article? You can email us and let us know. If it's interesting and thoughtful, we may publish your response.
This article was written by Vanessa Kirsch and Dana O'Donovan from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Instead Of A Coffin, Be Buried In A Biodegradable Pod That Helps Grow A Tree
description: Designers Anna Citelli and Raoul Bretzel want to change the way we think about deathand the way humans think about their relationship to the environment. Instead of tombstone-filled cemeteries, and formaldehyde-filled bodies sealed in steel or wooden coffins, they think people should be buried in biodegradable pods, becoming fertilizer for trees planted on top.
"We imagine that cemeteries could become forests," says Bretzel. The egg-shaped pod they created, called Capsula Mundi, is designed to hold a dead body in a fetal position, and slowly decompose underground.
Brenda Fitzsimons
"It's planted like a seed, and on top of it, we plant a tree chosen in life by the person," he says. "Family and friends can take care of the tree as it grows in the first few years. So in this way, tree after tree, the cemetery will become a forest."
Last year, Citelli and Bretzel released designs for a smaller pod that can hold ashes. Now they're tackling the challenges of making the pod the size of a body. Creating a mold for manufacturing at that scale is difficult; it's also more difficult to maintain the structure of the material, a biopolymer made from plant starch.
Once the design is ready, it won't be available for use everywhere. In some countriessuch as Italy, where the designers are basedso-called "green burials" are still illegal. In other countries, like the U.S. and U.K., green burials are becoming more popular, as people realize the environmental problems caused by burying people along with gallons of toxic embalming fluid, reinforced concrete, and heavy metals.
Bretzel thinks Capsula Mundi can also help people feel more comfortable with the idea of death. "People are afraid to talk about death, and it is one of the last taboos in our society," he says. "I think in some way Capsula Mundi changes the way you think about death. You can see death no more as the end, but as a way to go into the cycle of life, and so to go back to nature."
Capsula Mundi is running a Kickstarter campaign to take the final steps needed for manufacturing the larger version of the pod.
Have something to say about this article? You can email us and let us know. If it's interesting and thoughtful, we may publish your response.
All Photos: via Capsula Mundi
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: One Trick To Make Employees Happy: Ban Emails On Nights And Weekends
description: Despite some recent headlines saying otherwise, France hasn't banned people from sending work emails after business hours. But if a new French labor bill passes, large companies will have to negotiate with employees about how much digital communication should be limited after work. In other words, some companies might agree that employees shouldn't be answering email at 11 p.m.
"You can draft it now and send it out Monday morning."
It's a policy that some companies in the U.S. are also experimenting with. At Vynamic, a health care consulting firm, emails are discouraged between 10 p.m. and 7 a.m. on weekdays and all day on weekends, through a program the company calls "zmail."
"Stress was showing up as a challenge for our teaman area that we weren't really making improvements on," says Dan Calista, CEO of Vynamic. "Through some conversations about the abundance of email and the always-being-on nature of our jobs, we realized that this could be a great opportunity to create a structured way to disconnect on a regular basis, not just for vacations."
Gap_Abstracture via Shutterstock
The company's policy isn't just about encouraging people to stop checking their email and relax, but to stop them from bothering their coworkers during off-hours. In the past, someone might have sent emails late at night because that's when they got around to it, not because it was urgent. With the new policy, if someone wants to catch up on email after work, they're encouraged to save emails as drafts to send the next day. If something's really urgent, they can text or call.
"It's a great test, because if you find yourself hesitatingI don't want to bother the person with a phone call or a textit's a great indicator to say, well, it's probably not urgent enough to send an email, so why not just hit save," says Calista. "You can draft it now and send it out Monday morning."
The company adapted smoothly to the policy. Like companies that have limited work hours (like this tech company that always takes Fridays off), they've found that the shift helps make them more focused and productive.
Flickr user F Delventhal
"It's been far less challenging than I thought," he says. "When I first started thinking about the idea, maybe like a lot of great ideas, at first it seemed crazy . . . The more we talked about it, the more we thought it could be really productive, and what it's done is it's created an environment of what's truly critical and timely, and what is not."
This type of policy may become more commonnot just with firms like Vynamic that are competing for top talent, but with employers that are concerned about paying hourly workers overtime under the new overtime rules.
"It's created an environment of what's truly critical and timely, and what is not."
"If you have employees who are covered by the Fair Labor Standards Act and they're working after hours, they're eligible for overtime even if you're not telling them to work," says Peter Capelli, a management professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. "In fact, you have to sort of tell them not to work. Even then, if you create a context where a reasonable person might do the worklike somebody's sending you an email that says what do you know about this, we got a problem here, and you respondthat's working time and you have to pay them for it."
In California, where similar overtime rules have been in place for longer, organizations such as Pomona College have policies that tell hourly workers to not read their emails after work. If they do, they'll have to be paid overtime.
At Vynamic, there's evidence that limiting after-work email makes employees happier. Vynamic uses a third party to survey its employees each year, and job satisfaction is now in the low 90s out of 100 (in comparison, only about 48% of American workers overall are satisfied with their jobs).
Compared to other employee perkslike free food or health carechanging an email policy costs a company nothing. "There's not a lot of programs that I'm aware of that have such a huge return on investment and no out-of-pocket cost to it," says Calista.
Have something to say about this article? You can email us and let us know. If it's interesting and thoughtful, we may publish your response.
related video: Are you making the most of your free time?(Your browser doesn't support iframe)
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 5 Steps to Your Best Beach Body (You Haven't Heard Before)
description: You've probably read headlines like this one many times before, but this is not your typical bikini season prep list. I'm going to be blunt about exactly what you need to do before you show yourself in public, barely clothed. Ready?1. Buy a bathing suit.
A bikini, a one-piece, a sexy old-fashioned granny panty and halter combowhatever you like. Or maybe just dig around in your bottom drawer and pull out an old one. (I rocked a fitness tank and side-tie bikini bottom all last year.)
2. Take off your clothes.
Feel free to admire yourself in the mirror. Or maybe wait until after the next step to do this.
3. Do whatever it is you do in the body hair department.
You be you.
4. Apply sunscreen.
Because skin cancer.
5. Finally, put on your bathing suit.
If it's new, remember to take out that gross crotch-protector thing!
And there you have it. Do you have a bathing suit? Do you have a body? Then you already have the "beach body" you need to go out and enjoy your summer. We all do. And let's not let anyone tell us otherwise.
If you're looking for a little beach-body extra credit, here are a few more, totally optional steps:
6. Post a pic.
You can tell when someone posts a half-dressed photo of themselves in search of validation, and it's kind of sad. On the other hand, it's totally kick-ass and inspiring when someone shares a photo as an act of challenge or to make a powerful statement, a l actress Amy Schumer, writer Kelsey Miller, or even model Ashley Graham. It's challenging on a personal level, perhaps, but it's also a reminder to the rest of us to take a moment to think about our values around beauty, enjoyment, and embodiment.7. Put on earrings.
Because everybody looks more baller on the beach while wearing earrings. Yes, they may get ripped out of your ears or rust right there in the holes, but that's OK. And I'm not joking. I wear earrings on the beach.
8. Stop sucking it in.
In fact, let your bathing-suited belly shake like a bowlful of jelly. Need some inspiration? Watch these dogs work on their bikini bodies, admire a few true coastal beauties (so gelatinous!), and then read this snark-filled beach body masterpiece.
Sunny Sea Gold is Greatist's body image columnist and the author of Food: The Good Girl's DrugHow to Stop Using Food to Control Your Feelings (Berkley Books, 2011). The views expressed herein are hers. A health journalist by trade and training and a mom of two little girls, she's also an advocate and educator focused on reducing the rates childhood obesity and eating disorders by building Body-Positive Families. Reach out to her @sunnyseagold.
This article was written by Sunny Sea Gold from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Is Why You Shouldn't Diet Like Beyonc
description: Celebrity diets range from slightly obscure (Angelina Jolie's obsession with ancient grains) to completely insane (Beyonc's love of the Master Cleanse, which just means drinking glorified lemon water). This amusing video from Elite Daily explains why we shouldn't follow these diets like gospel. For starters, we don't have the same resources to spend on nutritionists, trainers, or personal chefs. So skip the next fad and try something intended for the rest of us instead.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Type of Person Can Actually Make a Long-Distance Relationship Work
description: Long-distance relationships are hard, but they dont always get easier when you and your sig o are finally living in the same zip code. This study found that one third of couples break up within three months of reuniting. Its a little surprising, then, that people in LDRs typically report higher levels of satisfaction than couples who live together or close by, but the disparity can often be chalked up to idealization. (Theres no fighting over dirty dishes or taking out the trash when you live in different time zones.) These stats also assume your relationship lasts while the two of you are living apart.
As this video from Bustle explains, certain people are actually better suited for long-distance relationships. Psychologists categorize people in relationships as anxious, avoidant, or secure (you can also be a combination of these). People with attachment-related anxiety tend to have a harder time being apart. So if youre the type of person who worries about abandonment and acceptance (do you really love me? Are you sure you love me?), you might want to avoid dating long distance.
This article was written by Alex Dunne from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Why Scratching an Itch Feels So Damn Good
description: Mosquito bites are the ultimate temptationthe little red welts are just itching (get it?) to be scratched. When you finally give in, scratching feels oh so sweet. That's because the process releases dopamine and drowns out the itchy sensation, though it doesn't necessarily get rid of it.
This itch-scratch cycle isn't a big deal for most of us (though we bet you're feeling itchy just reading this story), but it can become a real problem if you have eczema, psoriasis, or a similar disorder.
Researchers are exploring why we itch to help chronic scratchers find relief. For now, this video from HowStuffWorks does a good job explaining the theories being tested.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The Temperature Spiral Has an Update. Its Not Pretty.
description: The temperature spiral that took the world by storm has an update. If you think the heat is on in our current climate, you aint seen nothing yet.
To recap, University of Reading climate scientist Ed Hawkins wrecked the internet a few weeks ago with a revolutionary new way to look at global temperatures. Using a circular graph of every years monthly temperatures and animating it, Hawkins image showed planetary heat spiraling closer to the 2C threshold in a way no bar or line graph could do.
An update to the famous temperature spiral using future climate projections
Credit: Jay Alder/USGSHis tweet with the original graphichas been shared 15,000 times and its been dubbed the most compelling climate visualization ever made (sorry, landmarked Keeling Curve). The spirals popularity can be attributed in part to its hypnotic nature and the visceral way it shows the present predicament of climate change.
Hawkins graphic hints at the temperature spiral to come, but now a new addition brings what the future holds into stark relief.
{related}
Like a lot of people, I found Ed Hawkins' temperature animation very compelling because it details observed warming from 1850 to present in a novel way, U.S. Geological Survey scientist Jay Alder said. His graphic sets the context for looking at projections from climate models.
So Alder used climate projections and stretched the spiral to its logical conclusion in 2100 when most climate model projections end. Using our current carbon emissions trends, it shows that things could get out of hand pretty quickly.
The world has been on the edge of the 1.5C threshold
the amount of warming above pre-industrial levels that could sink many small island states permanently
this winter and early spring thanks to climate change and a strong El Nio. If the world continues on its current carbon emissions trend, it could essentially pass that threshold permanently in about a decade.
The 2C threshold
a planetary safe threshold enshrined in the Paris Agreement will likely be in the rearview mirror by the early 2040s as temperatures spiral ever higher. By 2100, every month is projected to be 5C (9F) warmer than it was compared to pre-industrial levels.
Itd be a world vastly different than today with sea levels up to 3 feet higher (and possibly more if Antarcticas ice goes into meltdown), rapidly shrinking glaciers and highly acidic oceans. Those changes would have very real consequences for coastal cities, water resources and ecosystems across the planet.
Of course, Alders super spiral is only one possible future for the planet. Last years Paris Agreement could be a turning point where nations start to rein in their carbon pollution. While temperatures would likely still spiral higher because of warming that's already locked in, cutting carbon emissions now will at least make the spiral more manageable.
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Empowering Women Through Manicures, In Colombia's Once Most-Violent Neighborhood
description: Fleury Rose is an artist. Her canvas is the fingernail, and her nail art clients have included celebrities ranging from Emma Watson to Whoopi Goldberg. But a few weeks ago she found herself in front of a very different clientele: A group of a dozen impoverished single mothers (and one man) in the city of Medellin, Colombia, teaching basic lessons on how to run a successful nail business.
Rose was leading a small workshop hosted by the CadaVida Foundation, an organization dedicated to empowering low-income single mothers in the city's Comuna 13 neighborhood. This would be an important cause anywhere, but it is especially crucial in a place like Comuna 13, which, in the height of drug lord Pablo Escobar's power in the '80s and '90s, was the most dangerous neighborhood in the most violent city in the world.
Today, two decades after his cartel's downfall, crime and poverty are still significant problems, but the area is often pointed to as an example of urban regeneration. (You can take any number of walking tours of the neighborhood today that highlight this resurgence. It will even be the site for its first TEDx event in a few weeks, hosted by the Cada Vida Foundation.)
Still, women in particular face many challenges. "Columbia is a very patriarchal society. It is very difficult for women to find a joband even more for single women who don't have the support of their husband," says Viviana Cadavid, a social entrepreneur who returned to her home country in 2014 to launch the foundation. More than one-third of children under the age of 14 in the country live in single-parent households, and most of these are headed by women, she says. Women don't have equality in education, especially at the university level.
What's interesting is the foundation's approach to female empowerment through the lens of beauty. Colombia has a deep interest in beauty. After Brazil, it has the second most number of plastic surgery operations in South America. Hair and nail salons are also popular.
"Women like beauty here, so this is the tool we are using to empower their life," says Cadavid.
This has included both training women in how to become entrepreneurs in various aspects of the beauty industry, especially as manicurists, as well as sessions designed to increase their own self-esteem. The foundation has held workshops helping women learn how to dress for the workplace and conduct themselves on job interviews. So far, about 400 women have come through different programs, some of which have received in-kind donations from various companies in the fashion and cosmetics industry. The overall goal is encouraging both financial and emotional independence.
Rose, the world-famous nail artist, experienced that when she led her course. Even though many had experience giving manicures, she taught them professional and entrepreneurial skills, such as how to market themselves on Instagram and other social media platforms.
"Even in a week, there was such a transformation of the people in the class. Not only was it important for me to teach an actual skill, but we also really wanted to teach empowermentthat these women should be proud of their careers," says Rose.
This article was written by Jessica Leber from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Watch: Drones Can Now Plant Trees From The Air
description: Planting trees is a good idea for many environmental and aesthetic reasons. But doing it by hand can be expensive, time-consuming, and sometimes dangerous, especially if you want the trees to be in remote, forbidding places.
That's why several startups are looking at using drones to do the work. We wrote last year about BioCarbon Engineering, a U.K. firm with a tree-planing drone prototype. Now comes DroneSeed, a Pacific Northwest startup with a working UAV and two pilot customers. See its new video here:
(Your browser doesn't support iframe)"The way trees are planted today is shocking. You have people with shovels trying to walk up these crazy terrains. Drones let us do it cheaper and more efficiently and that's going to make a big difference in saving the environment," says Lauren Kozak, DroneSeed's spokesperson.
DroneSeed recently graduated from the Techstars accelerator program in Seattle. It claims to be working with a top-five forestry company (which it won't name) as well as Clean Water Services, a water utility in Oregon. CWS is interested in using drones to plant trees in riparian areas to increase river shading and reduce water temperatures. It says planting trees is cheaper than installing cooling machinery.
The drones have a flight time of about 30 minutes and can cover an acre in 1.5 hours, Kozak says. They fire out seed podscontaining a mix of "fertilizers, hydro-gels and pest deterrents"at 350 feet per second (for comparison, paintballs travel at about 250 feet per second). The capsules nestle three or four inches into the ground. In addition, the drones can also spray herbicide to kill invasive species that harm tree growth, and they can measure tree diameters when the saplings are established.
There is certainly a big need for cost-effective tree replanting: about 6 million acres of trees in the U.S. are lost to forest fires every year. But let's wait for DroneSeed's first pilots to be completed before being too sanguinethe trees need to grow first.
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: China Is Going Solar In A Big Way
description: China is investing in solar in a big way, which is great news for the rest of us. China is a nation of 1.36 billion souls, so even though it has only just passed Germany (population 81.6 million) in terms of installed solar capacity, it's easily on track to leave it in the dust.
According to Reuters, even while missing its own target, China now has 43 gigawatts of solar energy, against Germany's 40 gigawatts. Clearly, in practical terms, Germany is still way ahead, to the extent that it sometimes produces so much renewable energy it has to sell the excess, whereas in China, solar is still producing just under 3% of the total power output.
But Germany only installed an additional 1.3GW in 2015, whereas China added 15GW in 2014. To get an idea of how big that number is, the U.S. had a total installed solar capacity of 27.4GW at the end of 2015.
The photos here, from NASA's Landsat 8 satellite, via Planet Labs, show the growth of one installation on the Tibetan Plateau near Golmud, China, between 2013 and 2016.
Finally, it seems, renewables are becoming not just an alternative energy source, but a primary one, and the urgency of installation shows that many smart countries are already thinking past the end of oil.
And there may be one other advantage to a massive solar push in China. Prices of installations will drop. According to the Solar Energies Industry Association, as the industry has grown, the price per watt of installations dropped from $8 in 2007 to under $3 in 2014. Now China is fully on board, we might expect its massive manufacturing capacity to push that down way further.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: What Men and Women Talk About on Facebook Is More Stereotypical Than Youd Think
description: As society becomes more progressive, gender roles are breaking down. We no longer bat an eye at male nurses or female bodybuilders, but the topics we talk about on Facebook eerily follow old-school gender stereotypes. Check out the graphic below for proof:The data comes from a recent study that analyzed status updates from more than 50,000 Facebook users between 2007 and 2012. A fancy algorithm grouped the most popular terms, and we took the liberty of giving each topic an all-encompassing name. So "happy, birthday, wishing, sister, years, wonderful, daughter, nephew, brother" became "birthdays" and "metal, music, band, rock, heavy, listening, singer, songs" became "music."
Overall men are far more likely to talk about objects and events like sports or video games, whereas women write status updates about plans and relationships. The study also found that women are more likely to use emotional language, but both men and women show a similar level of assertiveness.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The 30-Minute Rowing Workout That Makes Time Fly By
description: Now that you've mastered how to row, it's time to use your skills in a killer workout. We asked Melody Davi, rowing instructor at City Row in New York City, for a total-body workout that will keep your heart pumping.
Check out the moves below, then use the workout to put them together. You'll also find a Spotify playlist that will keep you motivated from start to finish. If you need to review rowing terminology, use this article.
The Moves
1. Recovery Row
Row with a split time between 2 and 3 minutes. This pace is slower than Fast Row pace.
2. Fast Row
Row with a split time of less than 2 minutes (or as close as you can get).
3. Stroke Breakdown
Do 5 leg-only isolations, 5 arm-only isolations, and 5 full strokes. Repeat 3 times. (Review isolations here.)
4. Stroke Pyramid
Do 1 stroke and pause at the catch. Do 2 strokes and pause at the catch. Build up to 5 strokes, then decrease back down to 1 stroke.
5. High Plank
Place hands on ground with wrists under shoulders, core engaged, and legs extended straight behind you. Maintain level hips as you hold position.
6. Forearm Plank
Support weight on forearms with elbows under shoulders, hips level, and legs extended behind you.
7. Walkout With Push-Up Pyramid
Stand with feet hip width and core engaged. Bend down and walk hands forward to come into high plank. Do 1 push-up. (Go here for details on how to do a push-up.) Walk hands back and return to starting position. On the next rep, do 2 push-ups. Continue to add a push-up each time until you do 5, then decrease back down to 1 push-up.
8. Runner's Lunge
From a high plank position, bring right foot forward into a low lunge. Pause to feel the stretch, then repeat on the other side.
9. Walking Plank
Start in a high plank and lower into a low plank one arm at a time. Reverse movement to return to high plank. Repeat.
10. Squat
See how to do a squat here.
11. Alternating Lunge
Stand with core engaged and feet hip width. Step forward with right foot and sink into a lunge by bending both knees to 90 degrees. Step back by pushing off right heel to return to starting position. Repeat on the other side.
12. Glute Bridge
Lie faceup with knees bent, feet flat on floor, and arms at sides. Engage core, pulling navel toward spine, then squeeze glutes and lift hips toward ceiling. Keep neck and shoulders relaxed and continue to squeeze glutes as you lower to starting position.
13. Tricep Dip
Sit facing away from rowing machine with straight legs and place both hands on rail behind you with fingers pointing toward you. Extend arms to lift butt off ground and engage glutes and legs. Bend elbows to 90 degrees to perform a dip, then straighten arms to complete rep.
14. Rail Elevated Push-Up
First review how to do a push-up here. For the right-hand rail elevated push-up, start in a high plank position with torso parallel to rowing machine and place right hand on rowing machine bar. (Make sure seat is all the way forward so there's no chance of it hitting your hand.) Do a push-up, keeping right hand elevated on the machine and left hand on the floor. Repeat on the other side for the left-hand rail elevated push-up.
Make it easier: Do all push-ups from a kneeling position.
The WorkoutThe Playlist
See playlist on Spotify
This article was written by AMY EISINGER from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Trailer Gives Us Hope That Impossible Beauty Standards Are Finally Changing
description: From Aerie model Iskra Lawrences unretouched billboard in Times Square to Ashley Grahams appearance on the cover of Sports Illustrated, we're seeing a huge change in the body types represented in media. Its been called the curvy revolution, but the new documentary Straight/Curve goes beyond plus-size models to showcase how women of all ages, sizes, and ethnicities are finally getting their moment in the spotlight. The trailer gives us a peek into how the body positive movement is redefining what it means to feel beautiful and is helping us all see our own bodies in a more realistic light. And we think thats fantastic!
This article was written by Alex Dunne from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The States Where Minimum Wage Workers Struggle The Hardest To Make Rent
description: With rents rising, and wages barely increasing among lower-income groups, there's a growing "affordability gap" in the housing market. In many parts of the country, it's now impossible to rent somewhere decent if you're working full-time on minimum, or near-minimum, wages.
In its new "Out Of Reach" report, the National Low Income Housing Coalition maps this affordability gap in each state. For example, in New York, you need to be making $26.69 an hour to afford a "modest" two-bedroom apartment. To afford a similar quality one-bedroom apartment on minimum wages, you need to work 101 hours a week (assuming 30% of your income goes to rentthe standard definition of affordability).
New York is an expensive statethe fourth least affordable, according to the report. But it's a similar story elsewhere. In South Carolina, the 39th least affordable, you need $14.84 an hour for a two bedroom and to work 68 hours a week for a single bedroom. In fact, there's not a single state, metro area, or county in the nation where the local minimum wage is enough for a decent two-bedroom apartment.
Hawaii, Maryland, New Jersey, California, and Connecticut have the largest gaps between average rental costs and average wages among renters of two-bedroom apartments. In Hawaii's case, the shortfall is almost $20 a hour ($34.22 against $14.53).
The NLIHC gives two main reasons for the affordability crisis: Stagnant wages and a lack of housing supply at the middle-bottom of the rental scale. Between 2007 and 2015, wages for the bottom 10% of earners rose only 0.2%, well below the rate of inflation. Between 1979 and 2013, wages actually declined in real terms (accounting for inflation) for the bottom 10% of earners, according to the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal think tank.
"The demand for rental housing is at its highest level since the 1960s," the report says. "In the past decade alone, the U.S. has added 9 million renter households, but only 8.2 million rental housing units to its housing stock. Vacancy rates are at their lowest levels since 1985 and rents have risen at an annual rate of 3.5%, the fastest pace in three decades."
The NLIHC calls for raising the federal minimum wage and expanding upon ideas like the Housing Trust Fund, a new federal program aimed at increasing the number of affordable housing units. This year the HTF got $173.6 million for all 50 states and the District of Columbiahardly enough to make a real dent in supply shortage.
Cover Photo: Flickr user Ryan Dickey
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Americas Sickest Wetlands Are in the West, EPA Finds
description: Few people will see the marshland that Beth Moseley helps spruce up during her volunteer outings to an industrial stretch of bayfront. Its hidden solitude from San Franciscos hustle and bustle is one of the reasons she often visits the restored wetland to watch birds.
Most of the work we do is pulling weeds, said Moseley, a 61-year-old resident of the citys Mission district, who has been joining the Audubon Societys monthly work days at the Pier 94 wetland for several years. Its kind of like the bay is taking care of itself.
The fruitful growth of the salt marsh over the last decade offers a germ of briny hope in a region where wetlands have been paved, diked and invaded by weeds at a rate unmatched elsewhere in the U.S.A view of the Bay Bridge from San Francisco's Pier 94 salt marsh.
Credit: Port of San Francisco
An exhaustive assessment released by the EPA this month based on more than 1,000 wetland surveys conducted in 2011 concluded that while nearly half of the remaining wetlands in the Lower 48 are in good condition, just one-fifth of the wetlands in the West are doing that well.
The findings portend problems nationwide as seas rise, with planners valuing the respite that coastal ecosystems can offer from floods and erosion-inducing waves. The 119-page assessment contained particularly bleak news from the West, where wetlands are the least widespread and in the sickliest condition overall nationwide.
{related}
Drainage projects, dams, paving and invasive species are so rife though the Wests remaining wetland areas that the EPA found three-fifths of them in poor condition. In none of the other three regions did the EPA find more than two fifths of the wetland area to be in poor condition, which was the worst of three scores assigned to wetlands.
The assessment analyzed coastal mangroves and marshes as well as mountain meadows, bogs and other ecosystems straddling water and land.
Half of the 220 million original acres of wetlands growing hundreds of years ago in the Lower 48 have been destroyed, agencies have estimated. That destruction was not captured by the EPAs new assessment.
We only assessed sites that were existing wetlands in 2011, EPA spokeswoman Monica Lee said in an email. To properly put the results of (the assessment) into context, its useful to remember that approximately 50 percent of wetland acreage has been lost.By growing taller as seas rise, marshes and other wetlands are increasingly being valued for their ability to buffer worsening floods and waves as the climate changes. Seas rose about half a foot last century and are rising more quickly now as climate change worsens. Seas may rise two to six feet this century, creating unprecedented problems for coastal communities.
As well as helping to combat the effects of rising seas, wetlands filter pollution from water, provide habitat for salmon and clapper rails and keep carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere
slowing global warming.
In California, the destruction of wetlands has been even more severe than in the rest of the country. An estimated 90 percent have been lost from the Golden State in less than two centuries. The causes of the spectacular decline of the wetlands of the West are rooted in a happenstance of geography and urban and industrial development.
Steep and jagged Western seasides naturally contain fewer wetlands than flatter American regions. Many of the Wests few marshlands were concentrated along the riversides and banks of San Francisco Bay, which is part of a vast estuary. Those banks have been paved over and built upon as the Bay Area population has swollen quickly in recent decades to beyond 7 million.Volunteers helping to clean up near Pier 94 in San Francisco.
Credit: Port of San Francisco
Thats one of the most urbanized estuaries in the country
if not the world, said Lisa Schile, a Smithsonian Environmental Research Center coastal ecologist who is based in Nevada and works nationwide. Theres a squeeze thats happening with the wetlands. Theres just a finite area.
Ships berthing at busy ports throughout the bay are constantly introducing invasive species. That has left the region with some of the worst infestations of wetland weeds anywhere in the country. Nonnative plants were found at high levels in 72 percent of the EPAs wetland surveys in the West.
At certain times of the year, a whole different kind of weed takes over, said Moseley, the volunteer. She said Pier 94 wetland volunteers plan to battle infestations of invasive sea lavender during their next monthly outing. It just grows like crazy.
The Bay Areas marshes may have been badly battered, but its residents and leaders are also leading the nation in working to restore them.Marshes south of San Francisco were destroyed to produce ponds for harvesting salt. Some are now being restored.
Credit:Martha Jimenez/flickr
The findings from the EPAs new assessment didnt surprise scientists, who already work closely with damaged wetlands and have front row views of the damages catalogued in the new report. It serves to inform policy makers in Washington said Carl Hershner of the Virginia Institute of Marine Science. It does serve to raise the level of awareness.
The Pier 94 wetland restoration was a small project. The marsh began growing naturally after a shoreline on Port of San Francisco property slumped into the water. The emergent marsh was fostered a decade ago by a public project that cleared away paving, tires and other heavy trash, helping plants take root.
The volunteers are constantly picking up trash thats been freshly deposited on the resurgent wetland. Its really special to kind of see how its transformed itself, Moseley said.
On a grander scale, levees are being punctured and salt-harvesting ponds are being returned to nature from the North Bay to the South Bay in an effort to restore marshlands, generally on waterfront property owned or purchased by a public agency. Bay Area voters are considering introducing a new property tax to help fund the work.
Bay Area agencies in 1999 published a vision of restoring 100,000 acres of tidal marsh. Since 1999, restoration work has begun and in some cases finished on 42,000 acres, state figures show. A recent science report commissioned by California cited an imminent rise in rates of sea level rise in calling for the work to be urgently accelerated.
Measure AA, which would create a new $12 a year parcel tax in the nine Bay Area counties to help fund wetland restorations, shares a ballot with Californias presidential primary election next week. The measure is being supported by an alliance of the regions business and conservation groups, but opposed by some conservatives, who say the structure of the tax would be unfair.
Moseley visited City Hall last week and voted in favor of Measure AA which would impose the proposed new fee on her landlord if two out of three voters cast ballots in its favor. I certainly would be glad to give $12 for this, she said.
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: A Drone Just Delivered Abortion Pills Into Pro-Life Poland
description: Abortion activist group Women on Waves just flew its Abortion Drone across the German/Polish border. The drone was carrying abortion pills, and when it touched down on the other side of the Oder River after outmaneuvering German police, two Polish women swallowed the pills.
In Poland, the already-strict abortion laws, which only allow an abortion if the pregnancy threatens the mother's life or her health, are set to get even worse. The governing Law and Justice party, a right-wing, Christian organization, is backing the new bill. The proposed law will even prevent abortions of ectopic pregnancies and rape pregnancies. "It will protect the life of an unborn child at all costs, including the distressor the deathof its mother," writes Zofia Reych in the Guardian. The Law and Justice party is the same backward-thinking party that wants to ban wind power in Poland.
(Your browser doesn't support iframe)\To protest this proposed law, Women on Waves staged this spectacular publicity stunt. A drone took off from the German side of the river Oder, pursued by German police, which it managed to outmaneuver. "The German police confiscated the drone controllers and personal iPads. They claim there was a violation of the Arzneimittelgesetz [Germany's medicines act]," say the Women on Waves in a press release.
Of course, Polish women can cross the border themselves and get medical treatment in Germany, but if there are complications, then these women can be denied medical help in their own country. And traveling abroad for proper medicine isn't affordable by everyone. Zofia Reych again:
A close friend recently had to travel for eight hours to a private hospital Slovakia to have an abortion. After the expensive procedure, she felt fine as her partner drove them back to Poland. But that night she started suffering severe abdominal pain. She realized that if she went to the hospital the doctor could notify the police. Fortunately, the pain subsided and her fear wasn't put to the test.
As publicity stunts go, this one is pretty spectacular. But the proposed laws that it is drawing attention to are an equally spectacular attempt to deny human rights to women.
Cover Photo: Valentin Valkov via Shutterstock
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 9 Shrimp Recipes Jam-Packed With Flavor
description: More often than not, shrimp is disregarded as bland or simply cast aside to the deep fryer. And though it may be small in size, shrimp can go big on flavor and nutritional benefits. Just one serving of these little guys provides immunity-aiding iodine, heart healthy omega-3 fatty acids, and even cancer-fighting carotenoids.
These nine healthy, delicious meals cover a range of cuisines from all over the globe and prove that shrimp is way more versatile than seafood skeptics give it credit for.Image: Just A Taste1. Asian Zucchini Noodle Stir-Fry With Shrimp
With classic Asian flavors like soy and hoisin sauce, this is just like your typical stir-fry shrimp dish except for the fact that it uses a fraction of the oil and swaps out regular noodles for spiralized zucchini. It's a takeout fake-out that'll be on your table in 30 minutes or less.Image: Wicked Spatula2. Paleo Bang Bang Shrimp Tacos
Gluten-free tapioca starch coats the shrimp in this pan-seared version of a typically fried dish. While every component of the recipe, from the chili sauce to the tortillas, is homemade, feel free to swap in store-bought versions in a pinch.Image: Pinch of Yum3. Garlic Butter Shrimp and Quinoa
A healthy recipe with the word butter in its title?! Yup, that saturated stuff can be part of a nutritious diet, and combined with garlic, its one of the tastiest ways to cook up shrimp. If you're not a huge fan of quinoa, this meal will change your mind.Image: Bev Cooks4. Simple Shrimp and Guacamole Tostadas
Essentially a crispy open-face sandwich, this tostada recipe eliminates the messy splatter that comes with deep-frying a tortilla. A baked version works just as well as a base to pile high with cumin-spiced shrimp, sauted veggies, and guac.Image: Domestic Superhero5. 10-Minute Spicy Shrimp Stir-Fry
Stir-fry, by definition, is meant to be quick, and this meal is ready in a flash while still being healthy and delicious. Make the most of the 10 minutes by mixing up the simple but flavorful soy and sesame sauce while the shrimp cooks.Image: Lemon Tree Dwelling6. Tropical Shrimp Lettuce Wraps
Its all about the complementary flavors here. Savory shrimp and avocado are paired with juicy chunks of pineapple and mango, and the whole thing is drizzled with a sauce thats salty from the soy and sweet from the teriyaki. Mouthwatering.Image: Simply Recipes7. Baked Shrimp in Tomato Feta Sauce
Feta and parsley add a Greek-inspired spin to shrimp in this rich yet nutritious disha tasty way to disprove the notion that fish and cheese dont belong together.Image: Jess Fuel8. Coconut Curry With Shrimp and Veggies
Dress up your shrimp in a velvety cloak of curried coconut milk then accessorize with plenty of veggies. Itll be a showstopper on any dinner table.Image: Damn Delicious9. One-Pot Lemon Orzo Shrimp
This recipe is the definition of no-fuss: Even the orzo itself cooks right in the pot alongside the shrimp! Wed say the minimal cleanup alone is enough motivation to make this.
This article was written by Anisha Jhaveri from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Why Did The U.S. Let Highways Ruin Its Cities, And How Can We Fix It?
description: It's obvious today that highways have no place in our cities, but back in the '50s, '60s, and '70s, they must have seemed like a good idea or they would never have been built. That, along with good old cash, was motivation enough for cities to slice themselves apart by allowing highways to cut through their centers.
Writing in Vox, Joseph Stromberg details the history of the highway system, which saw a shift from private tolls to publicly funded roads. The pressure for this came from the auto industry, seeking to avoid the money-losing private infrastructure that had collapsed under the railroads and streetcar networks. Today, the system is almost 60 years old, and has cost around $500 billion.
Postwar, urban highway development really got going, andcruciallythe plan for the entire highway network, including the paths that it would take through city centers, was decided by engineers. "They were trained to design without much consideration for how a highway might impact urban fabric," wrote Joseph DiMento in Changing Lanes, his book on the history of highways. "They were worried about the most efficient way of moving people from A to B." As long as individual states agreed to these paths, the federal government would pay for 90% of the new roads' construction costs.
But of course it wasn't so simple. At the local level, highways were often routed through poorer black neighborhoods. "There was also a racially motivated desire to eliminate what people called 'urban blight,'" writes DiMento. "The funds were seen as a way to fix the urban core by replacing blight with freeways."
But, as we know today, this didn't work as planned. Even if destroying black neighborhoods had somehow led to those displaced communities becoming rich, the very act of building a highway cut off other sections of the city, and they withered, economically, because if it. Poverty wasn't cured. It was just redistributed. The wealthy, moving to newly conceived suburbs, drove into the city to work, bypassing these neighborhoods entirely. Outside of the cities, rural businesses withered when highways siphoned traffic right past their small towns.
Almost half a million households were displaced during the first 20 years of highway construction, said Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx in a speech in March. A highway was built through Foxx's own neighborhood when he was a boy, and his street was walled in. "Areas of this country where infrastructure is supposed to connect people, in some places it's actually constraining them," he said.
While even Foxx can't dismantle the highways, he can stop the same thing from happening again. His new initiative, called Ladders for Opportunity, aims at improving the way infrastructure is repaired and replaced.
Its idea is that fixing infrastructure in cities to make it more racially and economically inclusive can boost the economy. "Look at our basic sidewalk infrastructure," Foxxsaid. "You see these roads are really designed for cars, not people. There are no sidewalks, and where you see sidewalks, there are no crosswalks."
This kind of design not only discourages pedestrians, it makes it all but impossible to move around except by car, and that means that the drivers couldn't get out and walk even if they wanted to. In a nation suffering an epidemic of obesity, this is just one more way that bad infrastructure can kill.
The job is a difficult one, to be sure. In a neat twist on the feds forcing local governments to allow the highways in the first place, Foxx says that today, local politics can delay or scuttle federal projects, such as the Baltimore Red Line light rail project that ended up being canceled.
But we are getting somewhere. If it seems crazy that engineers in the 1950s were allowed to design the highways system centrally, without any thought for the consequences of chopping up communities, then it's because today we already expect a lot better of our planning agencies (even though traffic studies are almost useless).
Most of all, we're finally getting sick of cars ruining our cities. In Europe, something is being done about itBarcelona has its traffic-free "superblocks", London is investing in electric delivery vehicles, and Germany is building a car-free neighborhood. Now it's America's turn to stop discriminating against people based on their mode of transport.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Get Nostalgic For This Disappearing Part Of The American Road Trip
description: Over the last seven years, photographer Ryann Ford has been on 15 road trips across America. Her goal has been to document as many midcentury rest stops as possible before they disappear.
Often just a picnic table and a simple shelterin the middle of nowhererest stops have sometimes been replaced by fast-food chains or gas stations, and sometimes have been torn down by state governments that don't have the budgets to keep up maintenance.
White Sands, New Mexico
Ford first noticed the structures after moving from California to Texas, and driving on back roads for freelance photo assignments across the country. "I was just immediately drawn to them," she says. "Being an architectural photographer, I think I'm drawn to both the landscape and the architecture."
When she Googled to see if other photographers had tackled the subject, she learned instead that many states were tearing rest stops down. One, outside the town of Flower Mound, Texas, had a longhorn-shaped roof and the Texas flag down the side. It was due for demolition in a couple of weeks, so Ford rushed to capture it.
She kept going, discovering quirky stops across the country. In Lajitas, Texas, a series of picnic tables in the desert are covered by shelters shaped like tipis. Three hundred-plus miles away in Sonora, Texas, another shelter is shaped like giant wagon wheels. Outside the tiny town of Abiquiu, New Mexico, a simple wooden structure sits in the middle of red rocks.
Ultimately, she shot 400 rest stops. Seventy-five of the best are included in a new book titled The Last Stop: Vanishing Rest Stops of the American Roadside (powerHouse Books).
All Photos: Ryann Ford, from The Last Stop: Vanishing Rest Stops of the American Roadside. Courtesy powerHouse Books
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Sesame Street Is Coming To Refugee Camps
description: A Syrian four-year-old girl in a refugee camp might have gone to preschool before her family was forced to leave homebut once inside a camp, there's rarely any opportunity for young children to learn. Now Sesame Street wants to begin to change that, with the help of some Muppets.
Sesame Workshop and the International Rescue Committee (IRC) have partnered to start developing educational content for preschool-aged kids living in refugee camps.
"It's a logical place for us to be, because we are all about providing access to education for children who may not have preschool education," says Sherrie Westin, executive vice president of global impact and philanthropy at Sesame Workshop. "When you look at the sheer number of displaced children who are refugees today, that's a place we felt we could really help fill a void."
While refugee camps often have some elementary education (albeit not enough), preschool is very rare. "Really young children have nowhere to go during the day," says Sarah Smith, senior director for education at the IRC. "And their parents are often working."
Even worse, young children may have no resources to deal with the violence they've witnessedwar, bombings, or the death of family members. Sesame Workshop has experience in helping kids build the skills to cope with unusually difficult problems.
The new content the program creates for refugee kids may also help their parents. As with their programs in the U.S., Sesame Workshop plans to make the content appealing for adults. "The learning is deeper when a parent is engaged in the content with the child," says Westin. "I think in these situations, it really plays to our strengths, because the parents are experiencing a great deal of stress, too."
Some of the characters may be developed specifically for certain locations, or borrowed from the local programming that Sesame Street has already developed for various cultures. "If you're in Afghanistan, there's Zari, a little girl Muppet," she says. "In Egypt, it's Khokha; in India, it's Champki." Elmo may also be part of the lineup.
The project will likely begin with a pilot near Syria and possibly in East Africa. Depending on the location, the type of content will vary; Syrian refugees often have access to smartphones, and sometimes TV. In other places, Sesame Workshop might develop printed stories or radio. The IRC, which has started preschools in a few areas, will help guide the content.
In March, Sesame Workshop spent a day in the Zaatari refugee camp in Jordan, and has run other pilots. But the partnership with IRC will be the first time it has run an ongoing program with refugees.
Of the 60 million-plus refugees around the world now, roughly half are children. "We know from recent brain research how important investing in the early years is," says Westin. "Content that is reaching children in the first five years really has the most potential in terms of returns on investment and long-term impact."
The partners want to inspire more organizations to help preschoolers. "We're hoping that this can affect the entire sector and mobilize others to really focus on young children as well," says Smith.
All Photos:
Jordan Pioneers Multimedia Production Co.
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: How to Make Your Flaws Work in Your Favor
description: "Man, she is so bossy!"
The comment stung, but it wasnt the first time Id heard that about myself. A couple years back, I was in a disorganized group at a corporate sales summit. We had 15 minutes to brainstorm some strategic ideas before a presentation. Knowing my dominant nature, I typically try to hold myself back in group settings to see if a leader emerges and, if so, be an active supporter.
But no one was stepping up. The clock was ticking, and our random rambling was going nowhere fast. I stood up, grabbed a marker, and organized our teams thoughts on paper. Then I asked who would like to presentand no one raised their hand.
I ended up presenting along with the other most vocal (if reluctant) person in the group, which worked out fine. Fait accompli. As we headed for break, I heard two women who'd been in my group whisper the above comment. Oh well, I thought. Theyre right.
The Power of Not Being Perfect
As a life coach, people come to me to overcome their apparent flaws. And together we develop ways to think of their "downsides" as positives. Here are a few examples of how I've helped my clients (and some friends!) turn their perceived weaknesses into strengths.
So-Called Flaw: Im introverted and socially awkward.
Truth: Youre a great listener.
This thoughtful introvert creates a safe space for people to open upan excellent skill to have that many extroverts lack. Plus, introverts like him can create lasting, deep relationships thanks to this trait.
So-Called Flaw: I worry about everything.
Truth: Youre considerate and caring.
This comes from a working mom I know. Our worries are energy that can be channeled into action. Worriers are often smart, thoughtful people who can learn to use their energy to help others. Plus, having a little bit of anxiety can even be an advantage at work: Research suggests it signifies intelligence and high IQ!
So-Called Flaw: I cant cook to save my life!
Truth: Seriously?
This comes from a VP at an investment bank who also blogs about fashion on the side. Um, about this flawwho the eff cares? We just have to focus on what we can do welland not the million things that are simply not a priority in our busy lives.So-Called Flaw: Im so impatient!
Truth: Youre a doer.
This person is extremely passionate. He works full-time for the government and has a side hustle helping preserve natural wildlifea personal venture that has grown to a level where hes now receiving state grants. His hustle and passion make him a true force for good in the world and an inspiration to others. He doesnt sit still, surelucky for those plants! With some meditation sprinkled into his hectic days, hes calmer (and unstoppable).
So-Called Flaw: Im a workaholic.
Truth: Youre thriving.
Recently, I had lunch with a girlfriend who told me about the eight professional projects she was juggling at once. And you know what? Ive never seen her happier. Her business is booming. In fact, Ive never met a successful and confident person who has not had this flaw slung at them by others. The truth is, if you love your work and youre good at it, great opportunities will flow toward you as a result.
Flawed? No way.
What is your flaw? How can you perceive it in a new light? How might it actually work for you? Since I started to own up to and even appreciate my domineering streak, Ive certainly felt a lot more freedom. I remember to be respectful and stay self-aware enough to take a step back when I need to. Otherwise, I give myself permission to do something beautiful: be myself.
No one out there is flawlessnot even Beyonce.
What's more: Flaws bring us together. They make us human. When we discuss, demonstrate, and own our flaws, we unofficially allow other people to be themselves too. Because no one out there is flawlessnot even Beyonce.
How can you rework, rename, or repurpose them to your advantage? Not just for job interviews and cocktail parties, but for you and how you perceive yourself.
In Lean In, Sheryl Sandberg writes, I want every little girl whose told shes bossy to be told instead that she has leadership skills. Nothing has been more affirming for me to readwhat a healthy way to interpret this common flaw. I know that Ive been hired and promoted based on my leadership skills (yes, what others might see as "bossy") and for that, Im incredibly grateful.
Susie Moore is Greatists life coach columnist and a confidence coach in New York City. Sign up for free weekly wellness tips on her website and check back every Tuesday for her latest No Regrets column!
This article was written by Susie Moore from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Rules For U.N. Climate Pact May Take Two Years
description: By Alister Doyle, Reuters
A first United Nations meeting on implementing a 2015 global agreement to combat climate change showed it could take two years to work out a detailed rule book for a sweeping shift from fossil fuels, delegates said.
The May 16-26 talks marked a return to technical work and the end of a "honeymoon period" since the Paris Agreement was worked out by almost 200 nations in December to cut greenhouse gas emissions and limit rising temperatures.Men fish next to cracked ground as the Atibainha dam lake dries up due to a prolonged drought in Nazare Paulista, Sao Paulo state, October 17, 2014.
Credit: REUTERS/NACHO DOCE
"My bet is 2018, everything will be done (in) a maximum two years," Laurence Tubiana, France's climate ambassador, told Reuters when asked how long it would take to negotiate a set of rules. Several other delegates gave similar estimates.
Tubiana said the Bonn talks had not exposed big, unexpected problems with the Paris text that could mean an even longer haul. "There was no shouting, no crying," she said.
Details left vague by the 31-page Paris Agreement include how countries will report and monitor their domestic pledges to curb greenhouse gas emissions and adapt to changes such as more floods, storms, desertification and rising seas.
Under the Paris deal, most countries' goals for combating climate change are for the years from 2020-2030.
Tosi Mpanu-Mpanu, chair of the 48-nation group of least developed countries at the talks, said the Paris Agreement had many ambiguities.
"When you go home, you do your homework and ... find that what you have created is a kind of monster from a legal point of view because it is open to many interpretations," he said.
Elina Bardram, head of the European Commission delegation, said the talks were a positive start "to fill in the details ... but we have a lot of work ahead of us."
Many nations said that the Bonn talks marked an end to euphoria after Paris. "You get married, you have a honeymoon but you have to continue with your life. That is happening," Amjad Abdulla of the Maldives, chief negotiator for the Alliance of Small Island States.
He said there was an urgent need to fix the rules because of mounting impact of climate change such as more powerful storms, droughts and rising seas. Last year was the warmest on record and recent months have all set monthly heat records.
Many countries say that the Paris Agreement, already signed by 177 nations, could enter into force this year or next. It first has to be formally ratified by at least 55 nations representing 55 percent of global emissions.
Many nations are uneasy because U.S. Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump has said he will renegotiate the deal if elected. Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton is a supporter.
Separately, developing nations said they would push at the next meeting in November in Morocco for donors to widen a $10 billion renewable energy plan for Africa, agreed last year, to include all poor nations.
Reporting By Alister Doyle; Editing by Tom Heneghan
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: As Disaster Risks Rise, 20 Nations Get Help to Prepare
description: By Megan Rowling, Thompson Reuters Foundation
A new scheme launched by U.N. agencies, the World Bank and countries most vulnerable to climate change is seeking funding of up to $130 million to help 20 at-risk nations prepare better for natural disasters.
The Global Partnership for Preparedness, launched at the World Humanitarian Summit in Istanbul, aims to help the countries attain a basic level of readiness by 2020 for future disaster risks mainly caused by climate change.Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan (R) and U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon shake hands following the closing news conference during the World Humanitarian Summit in Istanbul, Turkey, May 24, 2016.
Credit: REUTERS/MURAD SEZER
The money will enable the countries to access risk analysis and early warning systems, put together contingency plans, including pre-committed finance, and respond better to shocks such as floods and droughts.
"The aim is to save lives, safeguard development gains, and reduce the economic impacts of crises," said United Nations Development Program Administrator Helen Clark. Development gains, in particular, "can otherwise be lost with each disaster", she said.
The countries will be selected from the 43 nations belonging to the Climate Vulnerable Forum, a group that spans Africa, Asia, the Caribbean, Latin America and the Pacific. Backers hope to expand the program to 50 countries within five years.
Funding for the first phase has yet to be put in place but is likely to come from international institutions, U.N. agencies and government donors. Supporters hope the scheme will get off the ground by October.
One government likely to benefit from the partnership is the Philippines, which is looking to improve its ability to identify at-risk areas, and to bolster systems to respond to disasters, working alongside business and communities, said Roberto B. Tan, the country's treasurer.Typhoon Hagupit (known in the Philippines as Ruby) as it bore down on the island nation on Dec. 5, 2014.
Credit: NOAA
"If we plan ahead, we will create a situation where instead of wave after wave of climate-driven natural disasters destroying what gains communities have made, they can pick up their lives again as soon as possible," he said.
The World Bank, which plans to bring to the table its expertise, including in social protection and assessing hazards, emphasized the current low level of international funding for disaster preparedness.
Less than 0.5 percent of development assistance today goes to averting disasters and preparing for them, according to estimates.
But Laura Tuck, the World Bank's vice president for sustainable development, said there was growing evidence that donor governments and the aid community have grasped the need to increase that investment, not least due to mass migration around the world in the past year.
"One of the most exciting things from this summit is the emphasis moving from responding to humanitarian disasters to addressing situations upfront," she told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
"Building resilience helps to address disasters, population movements, conflict, fragile countries - all that can be mitigated through investments in resilience."
Disaster Insurance
Separately, the World Food Programme (WFP) said it would extend disaster insurance coverage for African countries to help transform how they cope with drought and floods by improving their ability to manage risks before they hit.
It will use a commitment of $1.6 million from the Danish government to double the number of people insured in countries that have already taken out cover under the African Risk Capacity scheme.Cattle died in the drought in Ethiopia, a member of the Climate Vulnerable Forum.
Credit: Oxfam International/flickr
By 2030, WFP aims to buy insurance cover capable of providing half its natural disaster aid expenditures in Asia and Africa each year, with payouts varying from year to year according to the disasters experienced.
Elhadj As Sy, secretary general of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, said a new commitment made in Istanbul by donor governments to tie less of the humanitarian aid they give to particular crises could give agencies more freedom to invest in reducing disaster risk.
"It makes a lot of sense to do something today to have the outcome you want tomorrow rather than waiting for the shock to arrive," he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
He recently visited southern Africa, which has been hit by its worst drought in the last 30 years, but the aid response is not yet at the level required, he said.
"It will be a shame again if we wait until we see the pictures of dying babies before we start rushing in and responding," he said.
Reporting by Megan Rowling; editing by Laurie Goering
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: NOAA: Near-Normal Hurricane Season Expected
description: The Atlantic hurricane season officially begins on June 1, but is off to an early start this year. Not only is a storm poised to form off the coast of the Southeast, but the first named storm of the season actually occurred way back in January.
Forecasters put the greatest odds on this hurricane season being a near-average one, with smaller chances it will over- or under-perform, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration announced Friday. The outlook predicts 10 to 16 named storms, with four to eight becoming hurricanes and one to four of those becoming major ones.
A major hurricane (defined as Category 3 or stronger) hasnt hit the U.S. coast since Hurricane Wilma in 2005, though storms like Hurricane Sandy make clear that its not only the strongest storms that cause major damage. NOAA authorities have urged coastal residents, particularly those along the Southeast coast this weekend, to make sure they have their hurricane plans in place.
A near-normal season does not mean that were off the hook or that there wont be hurricane impacts, NOAA director Kathy Sullivan said during a press briefing. So now is the time for you to prepare for the upcoming season.Credit: NOAA
Its not unusual for tropical systems to form before (or after) the official hurricane season that runs from June 1 to Nov. 30
those human-imposed dates are only meant to capture the bulk of hurricane activity. Tropical Storm Ana formed in early May last year, and two early bird storms arose in 2012.
Forecasters at the National Hurricane Center are watching a system between the Bahamas and Bermuda that looks very likely to develop into a tropical or subtropical storm over the next day or two. (Subtropical systems are those with characteristics of both tropical and frontal storm systems.)
If this storm does become more organized and its winds reach at least 39 mph, it will be dubbed Bonnie, the second name on the 2016 hurricane list.
Whether or not it does form, the system is headed to the Southeast coast and could mean a stormy, soggy Memorial Day weekend for areas from Georgia up through the Carolinas. With holidaymakers likely flocking to beaches, one major concern is deadly rip currents.
And if Bonnie doesnt materialize, the 2016 season already got an early start when Hurricane Alex formed in January. It was the first hurricane to arise in that month since 1938.
{related}
Unusually warm Atlantic waters helped Alex and other storms form last season, despite unfavorable atmospheric conditions ushered in by a major El Nio. In areas where those conditions periodically became less hostile to storms, the waters provided ample fuel for the convection that drives tropical cyclones.
The demise of El Nio and the potential development of its opposing phase, La Nia, are two of the big variables that could impact activity this year. The effects of El Nio could linger into the early part of the season, Sullivan said, and right now it looks like La Nia
which tends to boost Atlantic activity
could be in place during the peak of the season from August through October.
Another factor is a climate pattern called the Atlantic Multidecadal Oscillation. When the AMO is in its warm phase, it favors warmer Atlantic waters and a stronger African monsoon, both of which help fuel storms. That warm phase was in place during recent decades, which featured high levels of storm activity in the ocean basin.
Its not clear if the AMO may be switching to a cool phase and ushering in a quieter era for storms, Sullivan said.
This is a more challenging hurricane season outlook than most because its difficult to determine whether there will be reinforcing or competing climate influences on tropical storm development, Gerry Bell, lead seasonal hurricane forecaster with NOAAs Climate Prediction Center, said in a statement.
Overall, NOAA forecasters are calling for a 45 percent chance of a near-normal season, a 30 percent chance of an above-normal one, and a 25 percent chance of a below-normal one. In terms of storm numbers, that could range from 10 to16 named storms, or those that reach at least tropical storm status, including Januarys Alex and the possible Tropical Storm Bonnie.The system that could develop into a tropical storm or subtropical storm off the Southeast coast. If it does, it will be named Bonnie.
Credit: NOAA
Of those, they expect four to eight to strengthen into hurricanes (again, including Alex) and one to four of those reaching Category 3 status or higher.
An average Atlantic season has 12 named storms, six hurricanes, and three major hurricanes.
While hurricane strength is rated by wind speed, it is often water that causes the most damage and deaths. Tropical cyclones (the generic name for tropical storms and hurricanes) can cause extensive inland flooding
as was seen during 2011s Hurricane Irene in the Northeast
and through storm surge, or the ocean water its winds push ashore.
With those concerns in mind, NOAA has several tools to help the public better understand their local risks. These include a National Water Model, which can provide hourly water forecasts
including flooding risks
to several million locations, as well as a storm surge map and storm surge watches and warnings.
Storm surge is one of the clearest aspects where global warming is playing a role in intensifying the impact of hurricanes: As sea level rises, potential storm surge increases.
Over the last decade since Hurricane Katrina helped spur a flurry of hurricane-climate research, the science suggests that while hurricanes may not become more frequent overall, the proportion of the most intense storms could rise.
But as hurricane forecasters and emergency personnel are fond of saying, it only takes one hurricane hitting where you live to make all the difference.
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Global Warming Threatens the Worlds Special Places
description: The most precious places on the planet are under siege by climate change. From Venice being slowly consumed by the sea to rising temperatures stressing out Ugandas famous gorillas, history and the natural world are facing a threat unlike anything theyve ever experienced before.Visitor boat dock damage from Sandy viewed from the Statue of Liberty's crown.
Credit: NPS Sandy Response/flickr
On the eve of Memorial Day and the unofficial start to summer tourism season, the Union of Concerned Scientists (UCS) and the United Nations have put out a report chronicling the risks climate change poses to cultural and natural treasures around the planet.
The report looks at a handful of the 981 World Heritage Sites listed by UNESCO as having exceptional cultural or natural value. In all cases, climate change is exerting pressures that could permanently alter some of the most spectacular places on earth unless carbon emissions are cut.
We say we want to preserve these sites for the future of humankind, but unless we act, they will be destroyed by our own hands, Adam Markham, the deputy director of the UCS climate and energy program who led the report, said.
Its not just about losing places, either. Its about losing tourism dollars that are vitally important to the communities living around these places, particularly in developing countries. Tourism accounts for 9 percent of the global GDP. In the U.S., tourism to National Parks pumped $15.7 billion into local economies in 2014.
Natural resources are already being impacted. The recent global coral bleachingevent
driven by rising ocean temperatures coupled with this winters strong El Nio
is one of the starkest examples of how climate change is already devastating World Heritage Sites. More than 93 percent of the Great Barrier Reef bleached this winter, which scientists said was up to 175 times more likely because of climate change.
Elsewhere, rising temperatures on land have already contributed to changes in the forest fire season in and around Yellowstone National Park, another World Heritage Site. The region has seen a tenfold increase in the number of large wildfires and they now burn roughly 45 times more area each season than they did in 1970. Further changes could permanently alter the ecosystems in the park that drew 4 million visitors last year.(Your browser doesn't support iframe)
The threat to cultural sites is even more pronounced. More than three-quarters of all World Heritage Sites preserve pieces of human history, adding a sense of urgency to protecting them. Coastal areas in particular are facing a clear and direct challenge from rising seas and more intense storm surge.
The Statue of Liberty is a prime example of both the risks posed and the responses needed to deal with more climatic extremes. When Hurricane Sandy roared into New York Harbor in 2012, it inundated 75 percent of Liberty Island. The storm caused $77 million in damage there and at Ellis Island and shut down both sites for months on end to repair the damage.
The biggest impact was to electric, telephone and heat and cooling systems, which all sat in basements that flooded when the storm surge hit. In response, park managers have rebuilt the electrical system up to 20 feet above current sea level to minimize damage from rising seas and future storms.Flooded Venice in 2010.
Credit: Roberto Tombetta/flickr
In Venice, $6 billion floodgates are being installed to keep the Adriatic Sea at bay, though Markham warned the protection still might not be enough to protect the city from future sea levels and storm surge.
World Heritage Sites can also be a part of the solution. Beyond the tourism value, these places can also be tools in combating climate change. The large tracts of forest and coastal swamps and wetlands already store vast amounts of carbon and properly managing them could help further their carbon sequestration benefits.
Theyre one of the best solutions that nature provides to tackling global climate change, Tim Badman, the director of the World Heritage program at the International Union for the Conservation of Nature, said.
On a more meta level, they offer inspiration for what could be lost if world leaders fail to meet the Paris Agreement goal of limiting warming to well below 2C (3.6F).
Were about to lose a huge part of human history, said Marcy Rockman, a cultural resources specialist with the National Park Service. Humans centuries into the future will never be able to consult that, theyll never be able to know.
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Is Why You Should Bring a Friend With You to the Bar
description: The term wingman originated from fighter jet pilots (we're looking at you, Cougar from Top Gun), but you've probably used it to describe someone tagging along with their friend to a bar. It turns out there's science behind why having a wingman or wingwoman works. As this video from AsapSCIENCE explains, you look better in a group than you do by yourself.
Also interesting? Women help each other avoid potential partners they're not interested in. So bring your BFFL with you when you go out this weekend. Worst case scenario, you'll have someone to drink or dance with if things don't go your way.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The All-Electric Light Rider Is The World's First 3-D Printed Motorcycle
description: Airbus, the airplane company, has made what it calls the world's first 3-D printed motorcycle, and it looks like the perfect city get-aroundas long as you have $57,000 to spend. For that money, though, you not only get an ultra-light, speedy electric motorcycle. You get an ultra-light, speedy electric motorcycle called the Light Rider.
Light Rider comes out of Airbus's German-based APWorks, and it is full of fancy German engineering. The bike weighs in at just 77 pounds, and the all-electric motor takes it from 0-30 mph in three seconds. The top speed is 50mph, and the battery lasts for 40 miles. In other words, it's not going to beat a high-performance motorbike, but it will easily thrash your regular city moped or scooter.
The odd skeleton-like frame is 3-D printed from a custom material called Scalmalloy, which is an aluminum powder thatwhen printedis almost as strong as titanium. The process uses lasers to selectively melt the powder into the finished form. "Advances in additive layer manufacturing have allowed us to realize the bionic design we envisioned for the motorcycle without having to make any major changes," said Airbus APWorks CEO Joachim Zettler in a press release.
Because the frame is printed up one 60-micron layer at a time, the pieces can easily be made hollow. This is one of the reasons the bike is so light. The hollow channels also allow for cable and pipe routing, keeping these parts safe, and keeping the overall look of the Light Rider clean and sleek.
3-D printing doesn't make for cheap manufacture just yet, though. The Light Rider will come in a limited run of fifty units, retailing for $57,000 apiece. And if you buy one, you might find another good use for all those curly-wurly metal swoops: attaching a good bike lock or two, to secure your ultra-expensive, easy-to-lift motorbike whenever you leave it alone.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Fake Restaurant Only Serves Food You Can Instagram
description: If your first thought when you're served a beautiful dish at a restaurant is how good it will look on Instagram, it might be time for a reality check. This spot-on parody video from Elite Daily, which is part of its Millennials of New York series, goes behind the scenes of a restaurant named Sight, which serves incredibly photogenic meals. The kicker? You can't actually eat them; they're solely for the likes. Sadly we can imagine this restaurant existing and turning a profit. It's certainly inspiring us to put our phones away at brunch this weekend.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: These Harvard-Designed Robobees Can Perch For Days Using Static Electricity
description: Surprisingly, one of the trickiest parts of building a robot bee isn't making it fly, or stopping it from crashing into things, but perching. Perching saves a lot of energy, especially if you're relying on the constant buzzing of your wings to keep you from falling. Perching also means that you need to carry the extra weight of your perching "limbs" around with you.
A new paper from the Harvard Microrobotics Lab, published in the journal Science, describes how the researchers used static electricity as a temporary "glue" to allow tiny flying robots to perch anywhere. This is especially useful for small drones, because they have relatively little battery power, and perching can dramatically extend the time between charges. Birds just use their talons to either grab or teeter on any available perch, but robots, especially tiny ones, have other problems.
They need to carry heavy landing gear (the equivalent of talons), which negate the benefits to battery life, and they need to see out specific kinds of perch. A 'bot with magnetic feet needs a ferrous metal perch, suction might require smooth surface, spikes need a soft surface, and so on. "The methods [that animals] use to perch," co-author Kevin Ma told Harvard News, "like sticky adhesives or latching with talons, are inappropriate for a paperclip-size microrobot, as they either require intricate systems with moving parts or high forces for detachment."
Static electricity, by contrast, can stick pretty much anything to anything else using an electrical charge. It sticks balloons to ceilings, polystyrene packing peanuts to pretty much anything they touch, and now it can stick robobees to their perches.
The Harvard team came up with a tiny drone design that has feet at one end, for regular landings, and a thin disk at the other, which can be charged in order to stick to any available surfacepower lines, the bottom of a ledge, an overhanging branch. Once the static charge is set, the ultra-light robobee can hang indefinitely, continuing its observations until it needs to move elsewhere. The static charge is occasionally topped off, in order to make up for dissipation (a balloon will eventually drop off the ceiling as its charge dissipates).
The mechanism requires around 1,000 times less power to stick than it does to fly. This, as you can imagine, extends the mission time many times over.
Our method enables repeatable transitions from flight to perching, as well as transitions from attachment to stable hovering flight on overhanging surfaces consisting of wood, glass, or a natural leaf.
While this switchable electrostatic adhesion isn't strong enough for larger devices, it works great for insect-sized flying machines. But the small scales involved bring their own problems. For instance, the team found that the tiny propellor driving the robobee's flight suddenly develops 40% more lift when it gets close to a ceiling. This sudden spurt of speed was enough to make the 'bot bounce off before the electrostatic adhesion could stick. The answer was to mount the electrostatic disk on a small block of polyurethane foam, to act as a damper.
The result is a robobee that weighs in at around 100mg, similar to the weight of a real bee.
Because the robobee's static charge plate sits on the top of the body, it can currently only hang, but v2.0 will be designed to stick anywhere, making it even more flexible. The team lists several uses for its tiny robots"providing a bird's-eye view of a disaster area, detecting hazardous chemical or biological agents, or enabling secure signal transmission in ad hoc communication networks"but these perching, insect-sized drones would also be perfect for deploying listening and watching devices. In which case, they will be vulnerable to exactly the same countermeasure as a mosquito perched on your bedroom walls, waiting for you to fall asleep: A good slap with a paper magazine.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: These 8 Bug Sprays Are Useless Against Zika
description: By now you know to be a little concerned about mosquitos carrying the Zika virus, which means it's more important than ever to protect yourself from bug bites. We know: Most sprays leave you smelling worse than a citronella candle, but the CDC says insect repellent truly is the best defense against Zika.
However you can't just pick up any bug spray and expect it to protect you. ConsumerReports tested dozens of sprays against mosquitos that spread Zika and West Nile viruses, as well as ticks carrying lime disease, for its annual insect repellent ratings. The brands that topped the list (Sawyer Picaridin and Ben's 30 Percent Deet Wilderness Formula) protected for up to seven hours, while the loser, EcoSmart Organic, worked for only 30 minutes! In general, you want to look for repellents with deet, lemon eucalyptus oil, or picaridin.
As for brands to avoid? Check out our handy graphic of the bug sprays that failed ConsumerReport's tests:
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Tube Map Shows The Greatest London Buildings That Never Came To Be
description: Pretty much every one of the abandoned building schemes detailed on the Londonist's Unbuilt London Tube Map are fascinating, but some of them are just plain bizarre, and it is those which we will look at today. That's not to say that the concrete hell that was proposed to replace the Covent Garden market, or the completely turfed Diana Memorial Bridge, spanning the Thames in front of St Paul's Cathedral, aren't worth a curious glance. It's just that London has, over the years, gotten more than its fair share of oddball architectural proposals, some of which came surprisingly close to completion.
Let's start with a heliport, the staple of many a 1950s future-city fantasy. The Charing Cross Heliport, actually from the 1950s, would have sat over Charing Cross station and jutted out over the Thames.
via Londonist
Or what about the fungus farm proposed under the very center of the capital? The farm would have used the abandoned Mail Rail tunnels under Oxford Street to grow mushrooms, with light filtered down via fiber-optic cables from street-level mushroom-shaped sculptures. The date? Just a few years ago, in 2012.
There are plenty more oddball architectural follies, all of which can be found on the modified Tube Map abovefrom a penis-shaped skyscraper called the Green Bird at Vauxhall, to a vast pyramid designed to last 1,000 years at Lancaster Gate, to an airport on the river Thames itself, to a completely underground bikeway at Green Park. But maybe the best of all is a plan straight out of a Jules Verne novel. Not only is the 1930s Bennie Airway (at Queensway) a monorail, but it's a propellor-powered monorail, essentially consisting of wingless, propeller-driven airplanes hanging under elevated rails. According to the proposal, the cars would have whizzed over the streets of London at 120 mph.
Laurence Dunn via The Newcomen Society
Some of these unbuilt schemeslike the Bennie Airwaywould have been amazing, while others are so hideous that we can just be thankful they never got built. But all of them show plenty of the giant-egoed ambition required by any architect who wants to leave a permanent mark on London, and that's what makes them such fun to see.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: In Off-Grid Regions, Cheap Solar Kits Could Spread As Quickly As Mobile Phones
description: It's easy to get a cheap solar panel in Uganda. You just pay a small deposit via a mobile phone and you can take home the equipment immediately. You install the system yourself and pay off the lease as if you were buying pay-as-you-go phone credit.
This simplicity explains why San Francisco-based Fenix International has signed up 65,000 customers for its ReadySet battery and PV system in three years. By partnering with the country's leading phone operator, MTN, it's able to piggyback on a mature mobile payments system and agent network and take the mystery out of both solar and leasing.
"The same place our customers used to buy kerosene, there is an agent where they can put money into their phone wallet and pay Fenix," says CEO Lyndsay Handler. "What's enabled us to be profitable is the the growth of mobile money in general. Africa has leapfrogged the U.S. in that I can pay for a wide range of services just over my phone."
(Your browser doesn't support iframe)About 85% of Uganda's 38 million people lack access to grid electricity, and most use kerosene lamps for lighting. Fenix is one of several startups offering cheap solar alternatives in East Africa, taking advantage of an efficient mobile payments infrastructure as they do it. Others include M-Kopa in Kenya, Off Grid Electric in Tanzania, and Mobisol in Rwanda.
"We really feel pay-as-you-go energy is on a similar trajectory as the mobile phone and that, over time, the cost of these products will come down and our ability to scale will increase," Handler says. "Our target is 10% of the off-grid market. We want to reach 1 million households by 2020."
To sign up for Fenix, customers call in and answer a survey that assesses their ability to repay. Usually, customer service reps need to explain the financial commitment as most customers have no experience with banking services or leases. Fenix often starts customers with small systems: a panel, battery, and two lights. "We don't want to be like most banks and reject them. We want to bring them onto the ladder, build them a credit score, and get them where they want to be," Handler says.
Customers pay for as much or as little power as they want: from one day to 99 days. Each payment generates a code that they enter into the system at home. Handler says more than half of new customers come from referrals, which is in line with other solar markets (there's a marked keeping-up-with-the-Joneses effect to rooftop PV).
Fenix was founded by Mike Lin and Brian Warshawsky. Handler, who's from Lake Placid, New York, joined in 2011 and now lives in Uganda.
"Every day, millions of people spend 15 to 30 cents on kerosene to light their homes," she says. "It's very low-quality light so it's really powerful if you can bring new technology that's better quality and you have the same daily price point. The potential here is huge."
All Photos: via Fenix Solar
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Why Environmental And Health Groups Are So Torn About Toxic Chemical Reform
description: In 1976, the U.S. passed the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA), a landmark law to regulate chemicals around us to protect public health and the environment. But it has fallen far short of its aims. Today, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) doesn't have enough time and authority to test the 700 new chemicals on the market every year, and, when the law passed, 62,000 chemicals already for sale were grandfathered in. In 40 years, the agency has only tested 200 older chemicals and regulated five (these include PCBs, dioxin, and some limited uses of asbestos).
Now a landmark reform of the law is expected to pass Congress and be signed by the White House. It would be the first major environmental legislation since the 1990s, and even more remarkably, a bipartisan effort. It received near unanimous support in a House vote on May 24, and a Senate vote is expected soon. With clear deadlines and new authorities for evaluating risky chemicals, the new law would make it easier for EPA to regulate many chemicals it couldn't before, such as bisphenol-A (or BPA) found in plastics and food cans and flame retardants found in furniture. It also strengthens the agency's ability to require companies to do safety testing and harder for them to claim "trade secrets" to avoid disclosing information.
It would seem that environmental and health advocates would be celebrating. As evidence of a link between chronic disease and toxic chemicals has grown over the years, they have spent the last two decades lobbying to make the flawed legislation much stronger. But only a few are celebrating; others' support for the bill ranges from tepid to ambivalent.
For example, Andy Igrejas, executive director of the coalition Safer Chemicals, Healthy Families, has endorsed the final version of the bill, but late last week, before several last-minute changes were negotiated, he was not even sure about doing that. A week earlier, he told Co.Exist: "We're not for it, now. We're urging them to fix certain things. And if they fix these thingswe might be able to be okay, kind of reluctantly okay." And Kathy Attar, toxics program manager for Physicians for Social Responsibility: "I don't know if it takes us backwards. A lot of this is going to have to be a wait-and-see process."
If this bill is a landmark environmental law, why the hesitance from these groups? It points to the compromises that are made on the slow path forward to advancing public health and passing laws and the strong influence of the chemical industry on that process.
In the advocacy community, the rancor dates to 2013, when the Environmental Defense Funda large national environmental nonprofit known for being more willing to work with industry than other organizations in the spacebroke away from from the Safer Chemicals, Healthy Families coalition, which includes groups such as NRDC, the Consumers Union, the National Medical Association, and the Breast Cancer Fund. Both sides are fighting for the same thing. But unlike the coalition and its members' tepid endorsement, EDF views the TSCA reform bill as an important bipartisan success that is the culmination of years of work.
"In our view, this is a very solid bill," says Richard Denison, a senior scientist with EDF. "It's an improvement over the status quo on every major count. If we had the pen, we and other in our community would have written a different billin fact, we did write a different bill, but that never went anywhere ... this is the best and only opportunity that we have had to get the reforms made.
An update to TSCA has been under discussion since the 1990s, but was opposed by powerful chemical and manufacturing interests. But two things started to happen that increased momentum for reform. First, more and more states began passing their own laws to ban individual chemicals, often in individual products, such as the plastic additive BPA, resulting in headaches for companies trying to comply with differing requirements. Another was that consumers, as they became more educated about toxics and sought out products that were free from known dangerous ingredients, started to lose trust in companies' ability to regulate themselves.
This was an opening to make some progress and, in 2013, the Environmental Defense Fund took it. It left the Safer Chemicals, Healthy Families coalition that had been lobbying for reform since 2009 and backed a compromise, bipartisan overhaul of the law, written by late New Jersey Democrat Sen. Frank Lautenberg and Republican Louisiana Senator David Vitter, who was in close conversations with the chemical industry's lobbying arm.
EDF's former partners in the coalition ended up calling that 2013 bill as a "complete disaster." Not only did that proposed legislation not make positive reforms, says Igrejas, of the Safer Chemicals coalition, but it was a "seek and destroy mission" for any part of the existing law worth saving. That bill scaled back safety standards from previous proposals, including provisions to protect vulnerable populations, and didn't have hard deadlines for EPA to take action on evaluating chemicals, leaving too much discretion to agency officials. The groups in the coalition felt it would leave the public with even less protection, because it also blocked states from taking their own actions.
That bill never moved forward in the previous Congress because it didn't attract enough support from the left and because of Senator Lautenberg's death, but it set the ground floor for negotiating bills in the Senate and House this time around. Today's legislation is much stronger because it has firm deadlines for EPA and considers vulnerable populations, but the Safer Chemicals, Healthy Families coalition still views it as weak progress. It still will lead to slow evaluation of high-risk chemicalsas long as seven years, while partially limiting states that want to advance their own chemical regulations in the meantime. It also makes it easier for importers of products to avoid EPA's scrutiny, loosening requirements that they must notify the agency when they use a new chemical.
An even bigger missed opportunity could be that it nixed funding, discussed in previous bills, for R&D for greener chemicals, says David Levine, CEO of the American Sustainable Business Council. He leads a different group, the Companies for Safer Chemicals, a coalition of toxic-free brands like Seventh Generation, that also hoped to see a stronger law passed. The bill that will reach the President's desk, he says, is a "missed opportunity" to drive innovation.
Negotiations up until the last minute over last weekend rolled back some of the limits on state authorities, but it will still hurt in states like Washington, which proactively banned chemicals like BPA and, just this year, a number of flame retardants. "We know that states are able to act more quickly and we have a robust process here," says Randi Abrams-Caras, a senior campaigner with the Washington Toxics Coalition. "It will make the work that we do in the states more difficult." The flame retardants law, passed in March, should still stay in effect, but other states may not be able to act while EPA evaluates these chemicals.
In a way this is a case study in the fraught nature of compromise. Lawmakers agree that EDF's support is what got the reform legislation passed because it brought Democrats on board and that it is a step forward. "Anytime you have the Chamber of Commerce and you have the manufacturers and the Environmental Defense Fund all together," Republican Senator James Inhofe told the New York Times, "that gets people's attention." And Jennifer Talhelm, a spokesperson for Senator Tom Udall, the Democratic co-author of the bill, told Co.Exist: "Frankly, if EDF had not been at the table, we would still have a broken law, and we might still be decades away from reform."
But the Safer Chemicals coalition sees EDF's bargaining a different way: "You look pretty quickly and see that they are the outliers on this. They are entitled to their opinion. The bill is in a much better place than it wasbut that [2013] deal dialed it back so far that it has taken all this work to get it to this now ambivalent placerather than a complete catastrophe," Igrejas says.
EDF's Denison says it's quite unfair to argue that his group set anything back. It's decision to support the legislation in 2013 was tactical, born after many years of no progress at all in achieving Republican support.
"The reason we lent support to this in 2013 was because it was a huge opening to try to advance legislation on a bipartisan basis, which was the only way we were going to get this passed. Had nobody stepped up and said this is a bill from which we could workhad nobody done thatit never would have gotten started," says Richard Denison at EDF. "I'm not saying that we didn't take a risk in doing that. But there was no way that bill in 2013 was going to pass."
He adds: "Our view was that if we simply oppose, oppose, oppose there is no reason for anyone to try to get invested in moving this forward."
This article was written by Jessica Leber from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Mapping How Terrorists Are Destroying The World's Cultural Sites
description: How do you stop the deliberate destruction and looting of cultural sites by groups like ISIS? If military action can't stop terrorist groups from killing people and occupying territory, then how can it hope to protect an individual shrine? And should we even be bothering with protecting property when people are being killed or persecuted?
The Antiques Coalition thinks so, and its campaign starts the way most good campaigns startwith a good map.
ISIS and other groups have not only destroyed entire temples at Palmyra in Syria and Nimrud in Iraq, they have also destroyed Judeo-Christian and Sunni Muslim religious sites, says the Antiquities Coalition. The groups also steal artifacts and sell them to raise funding.
Mallawi Museum. Minya, Egypt. See the interactive site here.The Antiquities Coalition
To combat this, the Antiques Coalition has convened activists under the Culture Under Threat Task Force. They have two strategies. One is to push the U.S. military to target strikes that protect cultural sites, as well as adding these sites to "no strike lists." The other is to limit the international sale of stolen artifacts, which will both remove a source of funding, and discourage further theft. This year, the U.S. enacted The Protect and Preserve International Cultural Property Act. This, says Deborah Lehr, chairman of the Antiquities Coalition, will "restrict imports of Syrian antiquities so that the United States market will no longer be a destination of choice for conflict antiquities."
But how important is it to protect these sites?
"Cultural crimes represent much more than the 'destruction of property,'" Deborah Lehr, chairman of the Antiquities Coalition, says. "The destruction and looting of heritage sites are recognized as war crimes. The looting of heritage sites represents a significant source of financing for terrorist activities."
(Your browser doesn't support iframe)But these are just the short-term effects of the destruction. More important is the permanent loss of a shared history. When these sites are destroyed, the future culture of a society is also destroyed. Imagine if the 9/11 attacks had also hit the Statue of Liberty.
"The destruction of cultural sites, "says Lehr, "is used to intimidate the diverse populations of the Middle East, especially religious and ethnic minorities, and historically have been both a precursor and component of ethnic cleansing and genocide."
To help keep track of the various attacks and visualize just how widespread they are, the Antiquities Coalition has built an interactive map, called the Incident Analyzer. This map charts every reported incident, and can be filtered by date, by the group suspected to be responsible, as well as the kind of incident, or map feature (museums, heritage sites, terror-controlled areas, and so on).
Mausoleum of Mohammad Bin Ali. Palmyra, Syria. See the interactive site here.The Antiquities Coalition
Perhaps the most important use of the map so far was by Lehr herself, who included it in her testimony on terrorist financing before the House of Representatives. Before, they would have only been able to display five years of destruction compiled on a static map. The timeline and graphing tool allowed them to discover and show the patterns of destructive activity across the region.
The data for the map comes from various sources, including news sources, social media, academic groups, and people in affected countries. It is put together using technology from Hexagon Geospatial. But they have to be careful not to create a map that helps terrorists or looters access sites they didn't know about before.
Umayyad Mosque. Aleppo, Syria. See the interactive site here.The Antiquities Coalition
The map has thrown up a few surprises. For instance, it was assumed that almost no cultural sites were attacked on Fridays, a Muslim holy day, but this turned out to be far from true. And the map also acts as a crude tool to predict the locations and times of future attacks. "You can see past trends to anticipate future outcomes via time sliders, showing events/incidents and the movement associated with those across a city or a region," says Mladen Stojic, president of Hexagon Geospatial.
The world's collected artworks, religious sites and cultural artifacts are not just things we own. They're what we are. They're the sum of what we have achieved through our various histories. You could argue that a culture could never fully recover if such an integral part of it is destroyed.
"The director of National Museum of Iraq answered this question eloquently," says Lehr, "when he explained: 'Yes, they're just statues, but for us, they're living things. We came from them, we are part of them. That is our culture and our belief.'"
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The "Internet Of Things Bank" Gives You An Electric Shock When You Overspend
description: If you have trouble saving money, a new platform is designed to help remind help. Every time you spend over your limit, you can program a device to give you an electric shock.
Intelligent Environments, a U.K.-based software developer that makes software for banks, created the project to link bank or credit card accounts to devices like the Pavlok, an electroshock wristband. If you also want to trim your carbon footprint, you can connect your accounts to a Nest thermostat and automatically adjust the temperature to save you money on heating or cooling when you overspend on something else.(Your browser doesn't support iframe)The developers noticed that people are increasingly less aware of how much money they're spending. "A lot of expenditures people do are invisiblemaybe they're using Apple Pay, they've got standing amounts leaving their bank accounts, they're using contactless cards," says Intelligent Environments chief executive David Webber. "With all of these methods, their connectedness to their money is more and more remote. We felt that people would be interested to wrest back control of some aspects of their life."
If people don't want a shock, the Pavlok wristband can also be programmed to buzz or even beep. Warnings could also be tied to a particular locationif, for example, you want to start making coffee at home or work and get an annoying reminder every time you go to Starbucks.
No banks have picked up the platform yet, so it's still just a concept. But ultimately, the platform could be connected to other types of connected devices in creative ways. "All we're doing here is taking data, applying rules, making decisions, and allowing consumers through an app to choose how they're alerted or what they want to be turned off or turned on," Webber says.
In the company's research, they found that millennials were most interested in trying the platformand the over-25 crowd was most interested in giving it to a partner or family member. Certainly there's no lack of people who need help saving morein the U.S., most people don't even have enough money to cover an unexpected $500 bill.
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: A Low-Impact Barre Workout That Targets Your Core and Butt
description: Despite the fact that barre workouts are inspired by ballet, you definitely dont have to be a dancer to do them. This low-impact sequence doesnt feature any complicated choreography or rhythmic footwork like Zumba. Instead, its made up of very small, simple movements that will strengthen your core and butt. Its short (only 21 minutes), effective, and easy to follow.
Barre instructor Stephanie Villegas starts off with an easy warm-up to loosen muscles and prime your spine. Then youll work on tiny, controlled moves, including leg lifts, pulses, and clam shells. They might not look like much, but they'll really work your muscles. You might shake or quiver, but that's totally normaland Villegas builds in a few stretches throughout the sequence for some quick relief.
You'll need one lightweight dumbbell between 3 and 5 pounds and a chair or countertop for support. A yoga mat is optional.
Looking for more short and effective at-home workouts? Grokker has thousands of routines, so youll never get bored. Bonus: For a limited time, Greatist readers get 40 percent off Grokker Premium (just $9 per month) and their first 14 days free. Sign up now!
This article was written by The Greatist Team from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Beautifully Illustrated Book Shows Kids A Sustainable Urban Future
description: It's a fact of the children's publishing world that toddlers love books about trains and cars. But they tend to be a little datedThomas the Tank Engine runs on coal. A new kids' book tells the story of a road trip and city infrastructure, based on the latest sustainable technology.
A.B. Thorpe, who works in sustainable design, was inspired to publish Bicycles, Airships, and Things That Go as she thought of the technology books her own children loved growing up, particularly those by Richard Scarry.
"There are some really great books like that," she says. "But they're very sort of 1950s, 1940s notions of progress. There's the airport, the suburbs, there's a lot of cars and road building. One day it just struck me this is so against everything that I'm working for in my professional life. It's entertaining and it's fun, but I felt I wanted a way for the kids to enjoy something like this with the notion of progress as I envision it."
In the story, the family takes a trip to deliver a package to a science museum via bikes, an airship, scooters rented from a station share system, a solar-powered ferry, high-speed rail, and even a "bike bus" pedaled by passengers. On the way, they pass dozens of other examples of sustainable design, from a seaweed farm and offshore wind power to urban farming and bike parking inspired by Amsterdam's central train station.
Each of the technologies is labeled, another inspiration from Richard Scarry. But the focus of the story is the family's trip, and having fun, not the technology itself.
"A lot of times these messages come as sort of a guilt trip, or a schoolmarmish sort of serious thing, where the point of the story is really about sustainability," Thorpe says. "I wanted the point of this story to be going on a trip and having a good time."
At a basic level, it's a way to introduce kids to technology they might not have yet seen. When Thorpe tested the book with young readers, one family reported that their four-year-old daughter was able to recognize wind turbines by the end of the book. As children get a little older, the book could lead to more detailed discussions of how the technology works.
"I think there's a lot of room to get kids excited about new kinds of technology and opening up discussions about what kind of world do we want to live in, what kinds of things do we want to see around us, and how can we make those things," she says.
Even for adults who work in sustainability, there might be something inspiring about seeing all of these technologies in one placeparticularly if their day jobs are full of endless struggles trying to implement the new tech. "It's appealing for them to be able to share with their own children this vision of these things starting to come together," says Thorpe.
Bicycles, Airships, and Things That Go was written by Bernie McAllister, illustrated by John Aardema, and published by Kids Future Press.
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Ashley Grahams New Swimwear Line Proves Anyone Can Look Sexy at the Beach
description: Ashley Graham's new swimsuit line is making a major splash, showing that anyone can look great in a bikini, no matter your size. Need proof? BuzzFeed photographed plus-size fashion bloggerswho look like people we actually see on the beachmodeling the suits and they look fine AF, so we know they'll look good on us too.
Fair warning: The line, which comes in sizes 10-24, can get pricey (swimsuits range from $79 to $398). If youre more of a window shopper, check out these photos:Photo: Jon Premosch/BuzzFeedPhoto: Jon Premosch/BuzzFeedPhoto: Jon Premosch/BuzzFeed
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Mesmerizing Video of Nude Yoga Girl Is Even Better With the Sound On
description: Watching a yogi glide easily through asanas is hypnotic, but that's just one reason we love this Harper's Bazaar video featuring @nude_yogagirl. Turn your sound on to hear her powerful message: Social media places so much emphasis on what people look like, but yoga is about how you feel. "The most important thing I have learned from yoga is that confidence and loving your body starts in your mind," she says. Remember that the next time you're in class.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The Internet Is Freaking Out About This Instagram Fitness Star's Stomach Rolls
description: Odds are you've seen this photo of Instagram fitness star Anna Victoria. On the left is an image of her fit, posed body; on the right, she's sitting down, revealing a few stomach rolls. The surprise? The photos were taken two minutes apart, proving that angles can make all the difference. Her post has gotten a ton of press and positive comments:
"When we sit back in our beach chairs this weekenddon't forget this!"
"See belly fat doesn't matter."
"This is lovely to see, honestly."
Even though this isn't the first time Victoria has posted a photo like this, it's clear we can all still appreciate the reminder that no one looks perfect all the time.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Amy Schumer Wears a Swimsuit Like a Normal Person, Calls Out Haters for Being D*cks
description: Amy Schumer is calling out body shamers yet again, and true to form, it's hilarious. Recently the comedian posted an Instagram of herself in a bathing suit with this message: She's happy and thinks she looks greatand also like Miss Trunchbull from Matilda. (LOL.)
Schumer has been on a roll lately, shutting down negativity left and right. We love that she's so outspoken and confident about her bodywe should all adopt her mentality. Don't miss her empowering caption below:
I meant to write "good morning trolls!" I hope you find some joy in your lives today in a human interaction and not just in writing unkind things to a stranger you've never met who triggers something in you that makes you feel powerless and alone. This is how I look. I feel happy. I think I look strong and healthy and also like Miss Trunchbull from Matilda. Kisses!
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: You Can (Rightfully) Blame Your Parents for Your Low Self-Esteem
description: Not confident? Blame your parents. As this video from The School of Life explains, men tend to have low self-esteem if they think their dads have achieved more than them. Same goes for women and their moms. (Yet we never see Father's Day cards that read, "Thanks, Dad, for being so successful! Now I have cripplingly low self-esteem.") Comparing ourselves to our friends doesn't help either. But this isn't license to say, "Woe is me!" Focus more on the amazing things you're doing (not what others are achieving)it'll do wonders for your self-esteem.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The Least Expensive, Most Job-Friendly Cities For New Graduates
description: This year's college graduates face a choice about where to live and work. Do they choose a city like New York where rents are high but wages are decent? Or, do they choose a smaller city where rents are lower, but there are fewer jobs that may not pay as well?
A new joint analysis from the real estate data company Trulia and the career site LinkedIn gives an answer, and it turns out it's not San Francisco or Miami. Recent graduates may be better off plumping for Pittsburgh, Indianapolis, or Kansas City over more fashionable locales, the companies say.
Trulia and LinkedIn looked at 40 major metros, assessing job openings available to new graduates (as opposed to vacancies in general), the affordability of housing (affordable means less than 30% of an average income for someone 22-30), and the share of population 22-30 with a college degree.
Pittsburgh comes up on top because a high proportion of its jobs are graduate-level and more than 90% of its rents are deemed affordable. By contrast, San Francisco pays the highest average salaries ($48,000) but its rents are through the roofonly 28% of its rental housing is affordable.
"The lesson here for recent grads is that although it may be tempting to seek out places with the highest wages, doing so may not necessarily lead to a better quality of life because these areas also have high rents and a lower share of entry level jobs," writes Ralph McLaughlin, Trulia's chief economist.
Chicago, Cincinnati, and Philadelphia also make the top 10 for graduate opportunity. And in general east is better than west. Of the 10 weakest markets for graduates, eight are in California (Portland, Oregon, and Miami are the others).
The analysis shows that big Californian cities have relatively high numbers of college graduates in the 22-30 age group, but, partly as a result, higher rents and less jobs for new graduates. They are strong job markets overall, but not necessarily for graduates marking up their resumes for the first time.
Cover Photo: Joel Shawn via Shutterstock
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 7 Dishes That Should Be Served at Every BBQ
description: We spend a lot of time scouring the Web for tasty, trendy, and healthy recipes. It's one of the many perks of working at Greatist. In the process, we come across some amazing resources for easy meals that prove cooking healthy doesn't have to be expensive or a giant time suck. And now, we want to make a habit of sharing them with you!
This week Jess Goldman Foung of Sodium Girl shares her go-to, low-sodium recipes to kick off grilling season. Her second cookbook, Low-So Good: A Guide to Real Food, Big Flavor, and Less Sodium, will be in stores next month and is currently available for preorder.1. Low-Sodium Grilled Party Kebabs
How do you satisfy everyones dietary needs without breaking the bank or a sweat? A DIY kebab bar. Let every guest design the perfect skewer (or two or three) to meet his or her needswhether that includes vegetarian, low sodium, or green onion obsessed. Plus, only having to prep raw ingredients keeps the effort level low and the entertainment value high.2. Cauliflower Rice and Corn Salad
Cauliflower rice makes a great replacement forwell, ricebut go beyond the obvious and use it to take your salad game to the next level. Mix the fluffy cauliflower buds with fresh corn, avocado dressing, and herbs. Then serve as a side dish or as a bun-free base for burgers and hot dogs.3. Summer Squash Hot Dogs
Skip processed, meat-free products and use Mother Natures answer to the vegetarian hot dog: the squash dog. Its easy to make and fun to say! Plus, with the help of a miso marinade or a bacon spice rub, it may just end up on a carnivores plate too.4. Dukka Spiced Salmon Patties
Throw some healthy omega-3s into the mix with this gluten-free salmon burger. While the recipe uses a hot skillet to shallow fry the patties, you can always place the cooked burgers on foil on the BBQ for a smoky finish.5. Low-Sodium Asian Slaw and Spare Ribs
Juicy pork spare ribs and a crisp, crunchy slaw are basically the peanut butter and jelly of the BBQ worlda.k.a. a perfect pair. But dont be afraid to break with tradition by dressing them in Asian-inspired rubs and marinades. YOLO.6. Blistered Bean and Nectarine Salad
If you or your guests want to avoid carbs or gluten, you can still enjoy a bowl of pasta salad by replacing noodles with green or wax beans. Once washed and blanched, cut the beans to look like penne, about 2-inches long. Then finish the transformation with traditional mix-ins, like beans and corn, tomatoes and basil, and goat cheese and toasted pine nuts. Trust me, no one will miss the noodles.7. Baked Falafel Wraps
Skip the bean burgers and go Mediterranean with oven-baked falafels instead. Serve with lettuce wraps and cool yogurt dressing or even on toothpicks as an appetizer. Its the perfect dish for vegans and vegetarians, no cross-grill contamination guaranteed.
After lupus caused her kidneys to fail, Jessica Goldman Foung refocused her life and work to study food, health, and the ways they interact. She began Sodium Girl in 2009 to capture her adventures in living a low-sodium life. Jessica works closely with the National Kidney Foundation and American Heart Association on patient education and recipe development. Follow her on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and/or Pinterest.
This article was written by Sodium Girl from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Portugal Just Ran For 4 Days Straight On Sun, Wind, And Water Power Alone
description: Portugal just ran its entire country on renewable power alone, for four days straight. From May, 7 until May, 11, the country used nothing but solar, wind, and hydroelectric power.
This is significant only partly because of the length of time that Portugal managed. More than 100 hours is impressive anywhere. But perhaps more important is that Portugal has beaten Northern European countries like Germany and the Netherlands. In Europe, southern countries like Portugal are often seen as lagging behind, or even backward, especially when it comes to renewables. Short-sighted policies like Spain's Sun Tax don't help (this taxes people who produce their own solar power and use it themselves, instead of feeding it into the grid), but Portugal's record four-day run shows that the South isn't just about golf and tourism.
The viability of renewables as a sole energy source is looking increasingly plausible. Germany recently managed to produce so much wind power in a day that it ended up paying consumers to use it, and the Netherlands produces almost half its total energy needs from wind power. And because many neighboring European countries have import and export agreements to share excess energy, a glut in, say, Portugal doesn't mean that the excess sun and wind power is going to waste. In fact, Portugal not only powered itself over those four days last week, but also exported energy. Even the U.K. managed to run without burning coal for half a day this month, for the first time in over 100 years.
Portugal is pretty well placed to lead in renewables. It gets plenty of sun, and it occupies a strip along the coast of the Iberian Peninsula, meaning it also gets plenty of wind. And despite a 2012 reduction in government support for wind power, the industry is adding lots of capacity every year.
At this rate, we may all be surprised at how fast Europe manages to produce the majority, or even all, of its power from renewables.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Should Parents Be Forced To Take A Science Class Before They Refuse To Vaccinate Kids?
description: After the measles outbreak that began last December at Disneylandinfecting 147 people in the U.S., and another 159 in Canada, all thanks to anti-vaxxersCalifornia passed a law that banned "personal belief" exemptions for vaccines.
In Canada, the province of Ontario is taking a different approach. As part of proposed changes to the publicly-funded immunization program, the government wants to start forcing parents who refuse vaccines for their children to take a science class.
"The intent of the proposed new requirement is to ensure that parents seeking non-medical exemptions for their children are properly informed about the risks involved in not having their child immunized and to better support them in making an informed choice," says David Jensen, spokesperson for the Ontario Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care. "It will also be an opportunity to address the concerns these parents have about these required immunizations."
The government plans to work with public health experts and other stakeholders to decide exactly what the "education sessions" will include.
Unlike Californians, guardians in Ontario will still have a choice to refuse immunizations for their children after taking the class (in California, parents can avoid vaccinations only if they homeschool their children, or if there's a medical reason that a child can't get the vaccine). It's somewhat similar to Oregon, Michigan, and Washington, where parents can refuse immunizations only after getting educational counseling from a health care provider.
A study published earlier this year suggests that California's stricter approach might be politically viable in more locations. West Virginia actually started requiring vaccinations in 1905; Mississippi followed in 1979. While some experts have argued that this type of policy might stir up anti-vaccination advocacyeroding trust in vaccinations more generallythe study found that hasn't happened in either state. In California, now the third state with the policy, the majority of the public supports the new law.
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Africas Most Vulnerable Face an Even Hotter Future
description: Already home to some of the most environmentally vulnerable populations on the planet, Africa looks to increasingly feel the sting of climate change through more frequent, widespread and intense heat waves.
Extreme heat that would be considered unusual today could become a yearly occurrence there by mid-century, one new study suggests, and the trend will emerge earlier there
and in the rest of the tropics
before it does in more temperate areas, another finds.
Livestock drink from a drying river outside Utrecht, a small town in the northwest of KwaZulu-Natal, on Nov. 8, 2015.
Click image to enlarge.Credit: REUTERS/Siphiwe Sibeko
The studies, both detailed this month in the journal Environmental Research Letters, emphasize the undue burden that some of the poorest populations on the planet
often those that have contributed least to global warming
will face from climate change, the authors say.
They dont have the capacity to respond to such heat waves, lacking the kind of warning systems and regular access to health care that help those in wealthier countries cope, said Jana Sillman, a co-author of the first study, and a climate researcher at the Center for International Climate and Environmental Research in Norway.
An increase in extreme heat is one of the clearest implications of the overall warming that has resulted from decades of unabated emissions of carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping greenhouse gases. Warming has been shown to increase the odds of such extreme events already today, and heat waves are expected to become increasingly intense and frequent at all regions across the planet as temperatures continue to rise.
{related}
Because the tropics have less variation in their day-to-day and season-to-season temperatures, that means the trend of more extreme heat will emerge sooner and will reach higher heights than in more temperate locations.
Those areas also happen to generally correspond to the regions where the worlds poorest and richest populations live, respectively. The tropics are home to some 4 billion people, the U.N. estimates.
One of the new studies used climate models to link cumulative carbon dioxide emissions to extreme heat occurrence and showed that fewer emissions were needed to see an increase in the number of extremely hot days for the poorest fifth of the worlds population than for the wealthiest fifth. Among the most impacted regions were West Africa and the Horn of Africa.
Our results show extreme hot days will become more frequent with continuing emissions, and for some tropical regions these increases will become more apparent much more quickly, lead author Luke Harrington, a PhD candidate at the New Zealand Climate Change Research Institute, said in an email.
The other study used regional climate models to looks specifically at the trends in heat waves in Africa, looking both at events in terms of their severity and their duration.
Even though people living in tropical areas are more adapted to hot temperatures than those in more temperate climes, there is a limit to the human bodys tolerance of heat. The background warming of the planet means that heat waves now and in the future push closer to that limit than they once did, just as a rising tide lifts the height of the waves.
Sillman and her colleagues found that Africa is already seeing heat waves that are more intense, more frequent and that cover a larger area than ever during the last couple decades of the 20th century. And the models suggest that heat waves considered unusually extreme today could become a yearly occurrence by 2040 if greenhouse gas emissions are not curtailed.
By the end of this century, they could happen even more often, particularly in the tropics where there arent seasons like temperate areas.
Historical and expected changes in temperature and precipitation across Africa.
Click image to enlarge.Credit: IPCC
The heat wave is not limited to the summer, Sillman said.
The impacts to human health from such heat waves could be exacerbated by humidity. Though neither study incorporated this factor, other studies have shown that heat stress (a measure of both temperature and humidity) will increase in much of the tropics, including in places likely to see some of the biggest increases in population.
Many of these areas lack the resources to help people cope with extreme heat
such as reliable access to safe drinking water and cooling centers
and dont always have the systems in place to warn residents that a heat wave is coming.
Awareness around these issues is increasing, though: A series of deadly heat waves prompted the city of Ahmedabad, India, to work with NGOs to set up a Heat Health Action Plan that includes warnings and reminders of where residents can go to keep cool and hydrated.
Intense heat can also affect the productivity of economies, particularly for work based outdoors like construction and agriculture. A recent U.N. report estimates that 1 billion workers in vulnerable countries are already subject to impacts from extreme heat and that lost work hours could deal a major blow to developing economies.
Heat also affects the crops and livestock that people in many areas rely on for survival
drought and heat have led to severe food shortages in parts of Africa this year.
The threat to Africa is multi-faceted. Threats to human health via heat waves is but one of them, Michael Wehner, a climate researcher at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, said. Disruptions to agriculture, combined with a rapidly growing population in some countries is also of great concern. Wehner was not involved with either study but has conducted research on heat extremes.
How much Africa and other precarious regions are impacted depends on how the world as a whole decides to respond to the threat of climate change, including whether countries stick to their commitments to the Paris climate agreement. With a certain amount of warming guaranteed, though, adaptation to future conditions will also be necessary.
Emissions reductions can ameliorate these increasing risks, but even in rather dramatic emission reduction scenarios, the change in heat waves is still very large, Wehner said.
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: These U.K. Researchers Will Use Big Data To Predict When You Will Die
description: A new computer project from the U.K. will use big data to predict you when you will die. The four-year research project will take the data collected by health providers and extract from it the life expectancy of the persons therein. What it won't be doing is giving you, the reader, an exact time, date, and cause of death, because that's still science fiction.
The research, from the University of East Anglia in the U.K., will use the data it collects to identify trends in death. That is, given the vast pool of data available from health care providers, who like to know everything then can about you, the researchers will be able to see how things like drugs and lifestyle choices affect us.
"We want to identify and quantify the key factors affecting mortality and longevity, such as lifestyle choices, medical conditions and medical interventions," says lead researcher Elena Kulinskaya.
Bruce Works via Shutterstock
Teasing out such information from the sea of data will benefit health insurers, because they'll have a more accurate idea of when their marks are due to pop their clogs. But knowing how particular drugs, treatments, and habits affect us long-term will help doctors to tailor treatments not just for short-term cures but also to improve life expectancy.
"When we talk about big data what we mean is data that is vast, complex, and difficult to analyze," says Kulinskaya. "We want to be able to use it to see statistical life expectancy trends, based on large-scale population-based data collected over the long term."
But the study is also useful for you and me. While it can't predict our individual deaths, which is a terrifying thought anywaywhat if it only gave you a week?the model will be "true on average," giving us a good idea of how long we can expect to live.
Kulinskaya gives a rather mundane example of how this knowledge could benefit us. "[To] be able to plan for retirement, and to understand how much you can spend, it is good to have some idea of your life expectancy," she says. Given that the research is funded by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, an educational body dedicated to calculating insurance risks and premiums, that's less surprising.
Knowing when you are likely to die is some pretty scary information, but if it can help us to change our lifestyles to give a longer life, then that initial scare might be worth it. Who knows? Maybe having a rough date for our eventual expiration might have a bigger jolt on our behavior than all the anti-smoking, pro-fitness advice we ignore almost daily.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Researchers Are Using Stem-Cell Science To Save These Last Rhinos From Extinction
description: When a northern white rhino died at the San Diego Zoo last November, that left three of the animals in the world, all living in a wildlife preserve in Kenya. After decades of poaching and civil wars, the rest of the population has disappeared. The three who remain are unable to breed. But an international coalition of researchers is hoping to save them from extinction in the lab.
First, the scientists plan to harvest eggs from the two remaining femalesa delicate procedure that they're practicing first on infertile southern white rhinos, who still have a population in the thousands. When I first called Thomas Hildebrandt, who is helping lead the effort from the Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife Research in Berlin, he couldn't come to the phone because he was at a zoo, midway through a rhino egg collection.
"It seems that this technique has no impact on the health of the animals, it can be performed every two to six months, and it allows us to harvest oocytes [eggs] for in-vitro procedures from these individuals," Hildebrandt says. "[This can] show the proof of principlethat you can produce embryos in the test tube and then transfer them and produce offspring of them."
Flickr user jumblejet
After collecting northern white rhino eggs, the researchers will attempt in-vitro fertilization with frozen rhino sperm. Because the remaining rhinos can't carry a pregnancy, a related southern white rhino might serve as a surrogate. All of this is speculationno one has ever used in-vitro fertilization in rhinos before, or tried to use a surrogate rhino.
There's another big challenge: the three remaining rhinos are all related (the females are mother and daughter, and the 42-year-old male rhino is both father and grandfather). The handful of frozen sperm samples available, from the San Diego Zoo's Frozen Zoo, can't provide enough genetic diversity to create a healthy population of new rhinos. So the researchers also plan to use some genetic engineering.
Using a technique that won a Nobel Prize in 2012, it's possible to turn any cell, including skin cells from the frozen zoo, into stem cells called iPS, or induced pluripotent stem cells. Those cells can then be programmed to become sperm or eggsand then mixed into the in-vitro fertilization process to add genetic diversity.
In another technique, a southern white rhino embryo might be sterilized, and then stem cells from the northern white rhino could be added. "That establishes the germ line," Hildebrandt says. "Then these chimeras will produce pure northern white rhino gametes."
Hildebrandt's lab has spent the last two years working on a shoestring budget. "It's really disappointing, because we're fighting against time," he says. "There's not the time right now to wait for a better funding situation, because this male and two remaining females, they're aging fast, and nothing was done over the last six years."
Others argue that the money that will need to be invested in the process could be better spent protecting the southern white rhinowhich still has a fairly large wild populationfrom poachers. But Hildebrandt believes that habitat protection and the experimental anti-extinction techniques should go hand in hand.
"The northern white rhino is technically extinct, without the application of the procedure we've developed right now," Hildebrandt says. "They are infertile, they can't produce anymore, and they will be dead maybe in 20 years. The male may die in less than a year, and then there are only two females left."
He's optimistic that the science could work quickly enough to produce a baby rhino before the last existing northern white rhino dies. Thenbecause the southern white rhino population demonstrated in the past that rhinos can bounce backhe hopes that northern white rhinos could eventually be reintroduced into the wild.
"One hundred years ago, the southern white rhino population was down to 50," he says. "Now we are up to 20,000 ... I think that was a very great success story, and we could achieve the same with the northern white rhino. Maybe not 20,000, but 1,000."
The same techniques could also potentially be used for other animals on the verge of extinction, or even after they've gone extinct. Hildebrandt plans to work on the Sumatran rhino next. "There are only three in captivity in Sumatra, and there may be three to four still left in the wild in Borneo," he says. "It's a similar situationwe can apply the same technology we develop for the northern white rhino in the same manner in Sumatran rhinos."
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: More Exxon Shareholders Are Worried About Climate Change--But The Company Still Isn't
description: At Exxon Mobil's annual meeting on May 25, shareholders spent much of the time talking about how the company is dealing with (or, more accurately, avoiding) the problem of climate change. It's a question that has come up at meetings for the last two decades. But there were more concerned investors this yearrepresenting $8 trillion in sharesthan there ever have been in the past.
Something similar happened at the Chevron shareholder meeting the same day.
"Between the pressure from the divestment movement and the increase in engagement from active owners, there are more voices at the table than we've ever seen before," says Natasha Lamb, director of equity research and shareholder engagement at Arjuna Capital, an investment company that brought forward resolutions at both the Exxon and Chevron meetings.
Only one of nine climate-related proposals considered at the Exxon meeting passed, with 62% support. It calls for minority shareholders to be able to nominate outsiders to sit on the company's boardwith the goal that a climate activist could eventually become a director. The same proposal was defeated last year. The shareholder support doesn't mean it will automatically happen, but now Exxon's board will have to consider it when they meet in June.
Even the resolutions that didn't get majority support may have some impact. A proposal to force the company to disclose its financial risks from climate change got 38% support. "When a company gets a vote in that rangeand the management is recommending vote againstit means significant owners of shares are not accepting management's recommendations," says Kathy Mulvey, with the fossil fuel producer accountability team at the nonprofit Union of Concerned Scientists, who attended the meeting as a proxy of a shareholder. "It basically forces management to engage."
Still, Exxon keeps repeating the same messages. "At the meeting, [Exxon CEO Rex Tillerson] was on his best behavior. He acknowledged the climate science, but what he did not acknowledge is that we need to secure a future where global temperature rise is below two degrees Celsius," says Lamb. "He said that there's a larger band of uncertainty, and was not prescriptive as to what the outcome should be. That is fundamentally disturbing and not in line with the priorities of 196 global governments that have signed onto the Paris climate agreement."
Arjuna Capital, which pushed for disclosure on climate risks two years ago (in response, Exxon published a report arguing that it didn't face any risk), has moved on to asking Exxon to take actionshrinking the riskiest part of the business and returning capital and profits to shareholders. That proposal didn't pass but got enough support that Arjuna will be able to bring it back next year.
Other proposals asked for more transparency about the company's fracking and lobbying, and for a policy to acknowledge the scientific consensus on the two-degree limit for global warming.
While some investors have completely divested from fossil fuels, others see the value in pressuring companies like Exxon to change. "I think it takes all angles," Lamb says. "Many of our clients are divested from fossil fuels. And many want to engage with companies like Exxon and Chevron and ask them to shift and change." Large investors also have the option of divesting the majority of their assets, but still keeping a small stake so they have the ability to put forward proposals.
At some point, however, more investors may decide to cut their losses. "If business as usual continues, I think divestment is a smarter path forward than continuing to invest in companies that aren't responsive to a low-carbon future," she says.
Related Video: How Global Warming Will Affect Your Business
(Your browser doesn't support iframe)
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Is The $1 Billion Project To Plant A Wall Of Trees Across Africa A Good Idea?
description: As grand visions go, the Great Green Wall is up there with the grandest. It's been called a new "world wonder," highly "ambitious," and one of Africa's most important climate change projects. Stretching 4,400 miles across 11 countries, from Senegal in the west to Djibouti alongside the Indian Ocean, it would contain up to 11.6 million hectares of vegetation, all aimed at keeping the Sahara from encroaching southwards and maintaining productive land for the people of the Sahel region. The World Bank, the African Union, and the French government have collectively invested, or pledged, billions of dollars to the project.
But is the Great Green Wall a good idea? A recent article by Peter Fabricius, a consultant with the Institute of Security Studies, a South Africa-based think tank, pours a little cold water on the concept. Quoting anti-desertification scientists, he says it's founded on several misconceptions.
(Your browser doesn't support iframe)The first is that the desert is "a disease" that needs to be countered. Actually, it's a "vital ecosystem" in its own right. The second, that the Sahara is encroaching at allthe sands do move around, Fabricius says, but not necessarily southwards. And third, the idea that there's miles of virgin land just waiting for tree planting. In fact, much of the area is already used for livestock and agriculture, and farmers there don't necessarily want a load of trees planted.
To be effective, the Great Green Wall needs to be more than simply planting nonnative trees. "Planting trees in the Sahel is risky and often ends in failure," Gray Tappan, a scientist with the United States Geological Survey, tells Fabricius. "It's not about planting treesit's about farmers encouraging, protecting, and managing the natural regeneration of native trees that sprout spontaneously in their fieldswith a goal of greatly increasing on-farm tree cover."
Tappan says he's tracking Great Green Wall (GGW) projects, some of which started as early as 2007, and he's yet to see "any significant physical changes or improvements related to GGW activities."
Elvis Paul Tangam, who oversees the project for the African Union, says about 15% of the trees have been planted so far, mostly in Senegal and Burkina Faso. "They have planted more than 27,000 hectares of indigenous trees that don't need watering. Many animals that had disappeared from those regions are reappearinganimals like antelopes, hares, and birds that for the past 50 years, nobody saw," he told Public Radio International.
Tangam concedes the need for "managed natural regeneration" as well as just massive tree planting. But he also says the whole project needs better monitoring and progress assessment. Without it, it's possible a lot of money will be spent, and a lot of greenery planted, but without the hoped-for environmental benefits.
All Images: via Great Green Wall Initiative
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This San Francisco Apartment Developer Is Paying Tenants $100 A Month Not To Drive
description: When the sprawling Parkmerced apartment buildings in San Francisco were built in the 1940scovering multiple blocks, and the size of an entire neighborhoodowning a car was seen as a good thing. Times have changed. Now, the company that manages the apartments is going to start paying tenants not to drive.
Each month, residents will have access to a $100 incentive to use with Uber and Clipper, the local transit card for buses and trains. The program, set up in partnership with Uber, will also give a flat-rate $5 UberPool rate from the apartments to nearby public transit stations. If a potential tenant wants to come look at an apartment, they can get a free Uber ride back and forth.
"What we're trying to do is create a bridge to car-free living," says Rob Rosania, founder of Maximus Real Estate Partners, the developer of Parkmerced.
Because of the massive size of the developmentcurrently 3,200 apartments with more than 10,000 residents, and 1% of the population of the cityand because the neighborhood is in the middle of a city known for innovation, the company saw an opportunity to experiment with something new.
Flickr user D Coetzee
"If you have a 300-unit building, there's not a lot you can do, because this is not, at the moment, inexpensive," he says. "But when you have a 152 acres and you're going to have 30 times that many apartments in the long term, you can afford to invest in things that don't exist now."
The developers plan to expand to around 9,000 apartments, and, with traffic already backed up in the area, they needed to find ways to encourage more people to choose alternatives to cars. They expect to eventually get a financial return on the investment; one way that might happen is that they may not have to offer as many parking spaces.
The new program came out of a nine-month planning process with Parkmerced Labs, a subsidiary the company set up to experiment generally with real estatenot only transportation, but things like energy and connected environments. It also feeds well into Uber's ambitions for the company, to become an important link in the transit systems of cities.
For sustainability reasons, the developers point out that it's critical to upgrade existing buildings, not just make better new buildings. If all the new housing added to the world over the next 30 years was net-zero energy, it would cut global carbon emissions roughly up to 5%, they say. To truly move the needle on climate change, existing buildings will have to be part of the plan.
To help with their plan for car-free living, they hope to eventually also offer bike sharing and hourly car rentals. "I think what we're really trying to do is create a comprehensive alternative to private car ownership and really incentivize multimodal transportationgrounded in the real world, not in a fairy-tale land," he says.
All Images (unless otherwise noted): via Parkmerced
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Stuff All Your Sweaty Clothes Into a Bag That Fits on Your Key Chain
description: Matador Droplet Wet Bag
Workout clothes claim theyre moisture wicking and made from super breathable fabric. But anytime we work out, they feel more like a sponge for all of our sweat. (Pleasant!) So when we toss them in our gym bag, everything else starts to smell and get a little damp, including our phonewe learned that the hard way.
Now we can avoid frantic visits to the Apple store where we have to explain to the guy at the Genius Bar that we didnt drop our phone in a pool, it really got that wet from being nuzzled up against our sweaty clothes. Thats because we discovered the Matador Droplet Wet Bag. Its shaped like (you guessed it!) a drop of water, but it unravels into a pouch thats about the size of a plastic bag youd get at the grocery store.
The bag is totally waterproof and comes with a drawstring to stop any water from leaking out. Best of all? The Droplet easily attaches to your key chain or backpack, so youll always have it in a moment of need. Besides smelly gym clothes, it held our wet bathing suit after a day at the beach and notoriously leaky toiletries on a recent trip.
I Want This! $14.99
This article was written by The Greatist Team from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 9 Healthier Burrito Recipes to Satisfy Your Craving
description: Burritos dont need to be carb bombs or stuffed with refried fillings to hit the spot. From eclectic tortilla substitutes to nondairy cheese, the healthy variations on the classic dish are endless. Check out these 9 recipes that take burritos beyond the basics.Photo: The Girls on Bloor1. Steak and Quinoa Burrito Bowl
No tortilla here, but this burrito bowl still stays true to its Latin American roots by subbing in quinoa as a base. Top with steak and veggies, and youve taken care of your protein for the day.Photo: B Britnell2. Spaghetti Squash Burrito Bowls
If youre looking for a burrito base thats heftier than lettuce but lighter on carbs than rice or quinoa, use spaghetti squash. Not only is it a great way to get in extra produce, its also the actual bowl for the beans and veggiesyay for minimal cleanup!Photo: Strictly Delicious3. Burrito Bowl Mason Jar Salads
The flavor combo of chicken, bacon, sweet potato, and quinoa already sounds pretty delicious. Spoon the mix into mason jars, and it becomes even more appetizing.Photo: Noshtastic4. Gluten-Free Blackened Fish Taco Bowls
Turn fish tacos inside out by serving up perfectly charred tilapia along with all the fixin's in a bowl. This way, you can enjoy as much of the filling as youd like without being limited to what tortillas or shells can hold.Photo: Ambitious Kitchen5. Sweet Potato, Black Bean, and Egg White Breakfast Burritos
The addition of scrambled egg whites makes these super high-fiber, meat-free wraps perfect for breakfast. Make a bunch of them at once; they freeze perfectly!Photo: Life's Ambrosia6. Shrimp and Roasted Poblano Burrito
Even if you dont have time to make the garlic rice, dont overlook this recipe; the other ingredients, from the spiced shrimp and hearty roasted poblano peppers to the garlicky cream sauce, provide plenty of flavor.Photo: Hapa Nom7. Quinoa Burrito Bowl
Instead of using individual toppings, this recipe calls for pureeing them into a dressing to drizzle onto the quinoa mixture. That way, you get some of that creamy, herb-kissed avocado flavor in each bite.Photo: Sweet C's Designs8. Vegan Chickpea Burritos
While most burritos use black beans, this one switches up its legume game by going for the ever-so-versatile chickpea instead. Plain, diced tomatoes and shredded cabbage on top make for a low-maintenance salsa for an already-easy recipe.Photo: Athletic Avocado9. Burrito Bowl Stuffed Peppers
You can usually find sliced bell peppers hiding inside a burrito. Here, they take center stage as tortilla substitutes for the gluten-free chicken filling.
This article was written by Anisha Jhaveri from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: I'm About to Graduate From College and I'm Terrified. Here's What's Helped Me Deal
description: For the last few months, I've referred to graduation as the G-word. I've changed the subject every time my mom tries to talk to me about plans for that weekend.
Ive never been good with change. Im a naturally anxious person who tends to overthink everything. I also like to make a big deal out of good-byes (I may or may not still have a letter from a teenage summer fling my friends claim is tear-stained). So in addition to the whole oh-sh*t-Im-about-to-be-a-real-person thing, graduating college feels especially scary.
Dont get me wrongIm not sure college was the best four years of my life. There have been periods at Northwestern when Ive been very unhappy. But the people Ive met here are unmatched. I came as a confused, wannabe doctor and I'm leaving as a proud graduate of the journalism school with newfound passions, amazing friends, and an obsession with the city of Chicago. Suffice it to say, theres a lot Ill miss about this place.
Im fortunate to have a job lined up and a summer filled with travel plansand I really am excited about these things. But for months, I still havent been able to shake this fear of graduation.
With that in mind, I spoke with a few mental health professionals and life coaches to see what I could do about it. Heres whats helped me get excitedinstead of petrifiedabout crossing the stage in my cap and gown.
6 Steps to Calm the F DownFootball season (and that one time we were actually good) is one thing I'll miss.1. Think about what you're really afraid of.
For a while, I was scared about graduation because I thought was supposed to beeveryone freaks out about this, right? But once I stepped back, I realized it isnt really leaving college that scares meit's leaving my friends and moving to a completely new city come January.
Michael Mantell, Ph.D., a transformational behavior coach and Greatist expert, explains that we never actually "get anxious," but rather we create anxiety in our minds. "I encourage my clients to do whatever is necessary to change their inner perspective," he says. Realizing that I was creating this anxiety helped me gain perspective and work toward solutions.
Ask yourself questions to evaluate your own thinking and find the source of your anxiety, Mantell says. For example: Is it really true that I'll have no friends in Ann Arbor, where I'm moving to? Is freaking out helping me find a solution? And do I really need to have 20 amazing friends next year right away? Short answer: no. This kind of evaluation really helped me change my thought pattern.
2. Forget making a "bucket list."
Thinking about all the things I have to do before I leave Chicago made me regret what I hadnt done alreadywhich is just a negative way of framing the good experiences I have had. Instead, I made a conscious effort to reach out to friends that I hadnt seen in a whileand to try one new restaurant a week.
These small steps seemed a lot less stressful. And when I did something cool in Chicago, I was simply happy I got to do itand didnt worry about other things I had yet to check off.
It's the way you think about planning those things.
Still, the bucket list strategy may work for other people. "Planning things doesn't help you look at potentially scary situations more positively," Mantell says, "It's the way you think about planning those things." If you love the idea of checking off a list of amazing things you get to do before leaving college (or any major life transition), then it may be a positive thing for you.
3. Talk it over with friends.
After refusing to talk about "the G-word" for months, I recently spent an awesome night sitting on the floor talking with friends over wine, sharing our fears and feelings about graduating. Hearing other peoples perspectives made me realize that some of my worries were exaggerated (hey, I didnt know anyone when I moved to college and that turned out OK, right?).
"Avoiding the reality of graduation will likely only work temporarily," says Jennifer Litner, a couples and individual therapist and Greatist expert. "Avoidance as a coping strategy provides a distraction but may not actually be very helpful in the long run, as it draws us away from reality." Plus voicing those worries can bring you closer to the present moment and let you feel more open to new ideas or emotions, she explainslike excitement!Fun fact: This was my first legal drink (a photo from my 21st birthday!)4. Make plans for the future (ahh!).
Part of not talking about graduation was refusing to acknowledge anything that came next. But once I started booking flights, activities, and places to stay for a couple trips I had planned for the summer, I started getting ridiculously giddy about post-grad life. Studies have shown that planning a vacation is actually even more exciting than being on a trip itselfand I have to agree.
"When we have something to look forward to, such as upcoming travel plans," Litner explains, "this builds anticipation in an exciting and positive way that contrasts routine and day-to-day life."
5. Create a new routine.
I've always sort of rolled my eyes when people would say, "Yoga changed my life." And sitting still has never been my forte. But after writing about the benefits of mindfulness and meeting lots of badass yogis recently, I set a goal to take at least one yoga class per week.
Ill admit it was pretty hard to get into it at first, and I still look like one of those blow-up dancers at a car dealership when Im trying to balance in tree pose. But after finding an instructor I loved and committing to focusing on my breathing for just one hour, I started to actually hear myself say, "I need yoga today."
Making something I wasn't really comfortable with part of my regular routine helped me realize that Ill be able to adjust to other new things that come my way.
Another reason yoga calmed my graduation-related anxiety is because it helped me create a whole new routine. Ive had some of my best life chats over long runs, and Im constantly taking HIIT classes with friends, but yoga is a time for just mewhen I can be alone with my thoughts and my body.
Plus it's something I can continue to do when I move to a new city. Making something I wasn't really comfortable with part of my regular routine helped me realize that Ill be able to adjust to (and even grow to love) other new things that come my way next year.
6. Be OK with not being totally OK.
Although all these things have helped me cope with my fear of graduation, Im in no way worry free. Of course Im still nervous to graduateits a big deal! But as I recently learned while writing an article on how to calm down when you're anxious, using nervous energy to channel excitement is easier than telling yourself to calm down.
Still, after talking to friends, calling my mom (a lot), and reaching out to mentors, I understand that it's completely OK to be nervous about this change. Instead of telling myself I must be happy or excited all the time, I'm trying to take this process one day a time. Some days I wake up super psyched for the next chapter of my life, and other days I wake up wanting to slow the whole thing down.
Instead of resenting my anxiety, I remind myself that I wouldnt be worried to leave this place if I hadnt had such an amazing time hereand thats something to be thankful for. As Litner puts it, it's better to "celebrate where you are at and know that its perfectly OK to be where you areemotionally, physically, mentally, spiritually."
The TakeawayMy mom and I during a family weekend my freshman year!Yes, graduation (or any major life change) is scaryand that's OK. However, that fear isn't something that's out of my control. Mantell says we often create stress by thinking about the worst-case scenario or how things must or should go a certain way. But if we "anti-awfulize" them or take a second to stop our negative thoughts in their tracks, things might not seem so scary anymore.
Graduation weekend will definitely be an emotional rollercoaster. My parents will still cry, and I'll still write a bunch of sappy good-bye letters, but I'll also walk across the stage a lot more confident that the next chapter of my life is something to be stoked aboutnot something to freak out over.
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Bachelorette Spoof Nails Whats So Annoying About Dating IRL
description: Although it would be nice to get to know bae in glamorous locations around the world, romance isn't exactly how it appears on TV. This hilarious Bachelorette spoof from Funny or Die, which features Keke Palmer and her house full of millennial suitors, perfectly captures the annoying realities of dating today: disappearing text bubbles, Tinder, and the fact that a relationship isn't everyone's No. 1 priority. You'll feel these guys' pain as they vie to be her "one true nonexclusive soul mate."
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Not Everyone Finds Peace and Quiet Relaxing
description: If a peaceful weekend in the country sounds like your worst nightmare, you're not alone. A recent study found that neurotic people find the hustle and bustle of a city less stressful than a getaway in nature. In other words, your personality determines whether something is calming for you.
Researchers evaluated the personality trait by asking people questions about how much they worry and how easily they get annoyed. It's also worth noting that the study was conducted in a lab, so participants didn't physically go the environments. But if you feel stressed out in laid-back situations, this might be why.
(h/t Quartz)
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Powerful Hashtag Proves We Don't Know What Depression Looks Like
description: Anyone who's had an experience with mental illness knows how hard it can be to spot. Recently people have taken to Twitter using the hashtag #mydepressionlookslike to show that depression has many facesand may not look the way you think. It's an important conversation to have, not only because it helps fight the stigma but also because it helps people know they're not alone.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: New Tar Sands Impact on Climate, Air Quality Found
description: In one of the first studies of its kind, scientists have found that tar sands production in Canada is one of North Americas largest sources of secondary organic aerosols
air pollutants that affect the climate, cloud formation and public health.
The study, published Wednesday in the journal Nature, showed that the production of tar sands and other heavy oil thick, highly viscous crude oil that is difficult to produce
are a major source of aerosols, a component of fine particle air pollution, which can affect regional weather patterns and increase the risk of lung and heart disease.
An open pit where tar sands are mined, with a heavy hauler truck that is used to transport oil sand to processing facilities.
Credit: Environment Canada
Aerosols from the production of heavy oil is a growing climate and pollution concern because new tar sands developments are on the drawing board in Venezuela, Utah and elsewhere, the study says. Today, heavy oil accounts for 10 percent of global crude oil production worldwide, mostly in Canada, which produced about 1.1 billion barrels of oil in 2014.
The results indicate that the environmental impacts of Canadian tar sands are much larger than previously recognized, said Allen Robinson, a mechanical engineering professor at Carnegie Mellon University who is unaffiliated with the study. What is so novel about this paper is that tar sands were not on anybodys radar as a major source of aerosol.
{related}
Using aircraft to measure air pollution over the Alberta tar sands region, the researchers found that tar sands production emitted between 55 and 101 metric tonnes of secondary organic aerosols per day. Thatscomparable to aerosol pollution measured downwind of major cities such as Mexico City and Paris and greater than the pollution measured near Tokyo and the Northeast U.S.
Aerosols in urban air pollution and from major industries such as the Canadian tar sands are of concern to scientists because they can affect regional climate patterns and have helped to warm the Arctic.
In a separate study published Wednesday, researchers at the RIKEN Advanced Institute for Computational Science in Japan, said aerosols in the Arctic have a profound impact on the global climate system. Climate models often underestimate the extent to which aerosols from industrial air pollution especially those containing black carbon
warm the atmosphere because they assume Arctic air is cleaner than it actually is, the study said.
Black carbon contained within some aerosols can be deposited on Arctic ice sheets and mountain snowpack. The black carbon spread across the ice darkens its color, absorbing more heat and causing the ice to melt more quickly. Less ice and snow on the earths surface reduces the earths ability to reflect sunlight, increasing surface temperatures.
A tar sands processing facility and associated tailings pond (below aircraft).
Credit: Environment Canada
Aerosol pollution also affects the formation of clouds, which are seeded with dust particles in the atmosphere.
Tar sands study co-author Shao-Meng Li, a senior research scientist at Environment and Climate Change Canada, said that in highly-polluted regions, some organic aerosols can prevent clouds from forming. The atmosphere warms when there are fewer clouds to reflect sunlight.
Other aerosols can bring about temporary atmospheric cooling, mainly by seeding clouds that linger in the atmosphere longer than they normally would, or by scattering light. That cooling can have a profound impact on regional climate.
Researchers found in 2014 that aerosols may have been responsible for a cooling trend in the Southeast U.S. during the second half of the 20th century that occurred even as the rest of the globe warmed.
The cooling effect of aerosols can partly offset global warming on a short-term basis, but many are made of organic material that comes from sources that scientists dont fully understand, said Joost de Gouw, a research physicist at NOAAs Earth System Research Laboratory in Boulder, Colo., who is unaffiliated with the studies.
The results of this study are one piece of the puzzle to understand the overall environmental and climate impacts of the oil sands operations, he said.
Scientists say that even though the cooling effect from aerosols is real, the biggest climate challenge from the tar sands is their carbon dioxide emissions.
The real climate issue is the carbon intensity of the process, Robinson said.
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Underwater Camera System Will Help Fishermen Stop Their Indiscriminate Killing
description: Fishing trawlers are good at catching fish, but not always the right type of fish. Up to a quarter of everything snapped up in U.S. trawl nets needs to be returned, estimates show. The fish is either the wrong size, the wrong species, or doesn't meet official quotas.
Rob Terry argues that the fishing industry is years behind agriculture in this lack of precision. While farmers now employ all kinds of remote monitoring equipment so they can minimize inputs and maximize yields, fishermen are still using the same basic technology as they always did: basically one big net.
But Terry, founder of Palo Alto-based SmartCatch, thinks he has something that can change how fishing is done. He's developed a camera-and-sensor system, called DigiCatch, that allows fishermen to peer inside their nets while they're underwater. This visibility could help them to find the most suitable fish and avoid species that should be left alone, Terry says.
The DigiCatch is a four-foot metal tube suspended inside a trawler net. It contains a HD-quality camera, sensors for temperature, salinity, and water depth, and strong lights to illuminate the net even in murky conditions. The net is viewable from a ship's wheelhouse, allowing fishermen to move on when stocks are low, or when fish are the wrong size or species. It can also help fishermen plan future trips, as they can review footage later to understand where the best trawls might be.
SmartCatch is also developing new kinds of nets that let fishermen discharge some of their catches or filter out before they get into the storage end at the bottom of the net.
"The technology we've been using is very effective for catching fish but it's incredibly indiscriminate," Terry says. "Since the mid-'60s, we've been pulling out more fish than we've giving time to regenerate, so we've collapsed a lot of the species we've been depending on for centuries." Recent research estimates show that global catches are higher even than official estimates.
Terry, a former e-commerce director at Whole Foods, has been working on the products for three years and has a commitment from one trawler crew to start using DigiCatch. He admits, though, that finding funding is hard, as few investors are interested in the topic. "We need to ramp up our ability to produce products," he says. "It's not the sort of play that a lot of investors have experience with. But we think there's hope in the so-called blue economy."
Indeed, there could be tremendous value in managing the oceans in a more efficient way. The World Bank says we're wasting at least $50 billion every year because overfishing is leading to a depletion of possible stocks. It's surely time for better regulation of the industry, and better technology, too.
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: A Handy Reference Guide For Winning Every Anti-Cycling Argument Ever
description: If you're a cyclist, you probably end up in a lot of frustrating arguments with folks who seem to hate your chosen method of transport, a method which not only benefits you, but also makes the city streets safer for everyone.
Flickr user Paul Krueger
The U.K. now has a website designed solely to help you combat such ignorance. It's called Cycling Fallacies, and it provides smart arguments against 30 misconceptions about cycling and cycling infrastructure, from "cycling makes you sweaty," through "shops won't get deliveries if bike lanes are installed" to "cyclists would be safe enough if only drivers were educated. It even tackles the dreaded helmet argument:
Wearing a helmetmakes little difference to overall cycling safety. Countries with mandatory helmet laws show no reduction in head injuries (or injuries overall) compared to countries or other areas without these laws.
Requiring helmet use, especially through legislation, is proven to have a negative impact: it discourages people from cycling, thus reducing the societal benefit accruing from a healthier, more active population.
Even if you're familiar with the usual counter-arguments against people who complain that cyclists run red lights or that we don't pay for the upkeep of roads, the site is worth checking out, even if its only to bookmark the link to send to your most ignorant friends. And each point is not only well argued, but comes with a list of links for further reading. This isn't just an opinion-led, pro-cycling rant.
Perhaps the most useful points on the site are those concerning infrastructure. Car drivers, fearful that they will lose parts of "their" roads to bike lanes or that "their" taxes will be wasted on making our cities safer and more pleasant, can grasp at all kinds of crazy arguments against building out infrastructure.
So if you find yourself with an opportunity to attend a town planning meeting, you could do a lot worse than to prepare yourself with Cycling Fallacies' own arguments, and especially with the list of reference material accompanying each one. And if nothing else, it'll help you win the next time you're in the pub and somebody decides to go on an anti-cycling rant.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The Brands That Do The Most And Least Good For The World--Ranked By Consumers
description: A company's shareholder value doesn't necessarily reflect its value to the wider world: how useful its products are, the good it does for people, how much it tries to minimize social and environmental harm. With that in mind, a new survey asked people to rank companies for their perceived "purpose"the extent to which they stand for something other than making money.
Best Brands overall:
1. Goodwill
2. Amazon
3. Google
4. Kellogg's
5. Paypal
6. Disney
7. Girl Scouts of America
8. Kraft
9. Johnson & Johnson
10. Dove
Enso, a marketing agency, commissioned the survey which asked 3,000 people how they perceived the "world value" of 149 well-known organizations, from Disney to United Airlines (some non-profits were also included). The results are quite different from traditional brand valuations, like Fortune's Most Valuable Brands research, which focus on financial value to the exclusion of other considerations.
"People's perception of the value of a brand are more important than ever," says Brian Hardwick, who led the research. "We were interested in how people perceive the impact of brands, and, if there is a gap between their impact and how people are perceiving it, whether there's an opportunity for brands to close that."
Goodwill, the charity group, tops the ranking, followed by Amazon, Google, Kellogg's, and PayPal. At the other end are Marlboro, Monsanto, Red Bull, and Goldman Sachs. The surprise is to see several brands known for their purpose well down the list. Patagonia is 87th place. Unilever, a multi-brand conglomerate with impressive environmental performance, is in 116th. Airbnb, a leader in the sharing economy, is in 142nd place.
Worst Brands:
1. Marlboro
2. Monsanto
3. Red Bull
4. Goldman Sachs
5. Lululemon
6. Miller Lite
7. Salesforce.com
8. Airbnb
9. Audi
10. Heineken
Hardwick says this could be because these companies serve relatively small segments of the market. "Airbnb and Uber are newer brands that probably don't have that familiarity outside of coastal cities. Patagonia has been around for a long time, but it's better known among a wealthier subset of people." Patagonia is in 13th place among what Enso calls an "elite" group of consumers: those with a household income of more than $100,000 and at least a college education. Charities also appear to rank higher with the rich.
Amazon's top ranking comes despite its reputation for hard-nosed business practice. "Amazon was a real surprise to us," Hardwick says. "They are less purposeful in their communications. But people see a huge value in what they're doing for them in convenience and making their lives easier."
The survey shows that millennials and generation Z have significantly different impressions of companies than older groups. For example, they rank Twitter and Uber respectively 58 and 42 places above their main ranking. At the same time, they rank old-line giants like IBM, Procter & Gamble and Hewlett-Packard substantially lower than do older people.
"Studies show how skeptical millennials are about big institutions," says Sebastian Buck, Enso's co-founder. "Those brands have some work to do in their actions and what they say to demonstrate to this new generation that they're also interested in creating big impact."
See more from the survey here.
Related Video: The Girl Scout's Evolving Brand
(Your browser doesn't support iframe)
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: At What Age Do People Get Married Around The World?
description: Marriage is different all around the world, including the age at which people do it. And now, thanks to Priceonomics' Alex Mayyasi, we know at what age people get married all over the planet. Mayyasi took the UN's marriage data for the world's 20 most populous countries and compiled it in an easy format.
The numbers were arrived at by averaging the ages of men and women, but, says Mayyasi, this hides the fact that men marry later than women, 3.7 years later on average. This gap also varies from place to place, getting shorter the richer the country. France has the smallest gap1.6 years, and Egypt has the largest: five years. The data set does leave out a number of the poorest countries.
Flickr user Kimberly Vardeman
Anecdotally, this fits. I live in Germany (number one in this list), where people shack up as early as anyone else, but nobody seems to get married until they have had kids. This is partly because married couples get great kid-related benefits like paternity leave and partly because seemingly everyone stays in higher education well into their thirties.
The rising age of marriage is good for women. According to a 2013 study sponsored by the National Campaign to Prevent Teen and Unplanned Pregnancy, women who wait until age 30 to get married earn a lot more:
Later marriage tends to mean richer women, especially among the college educated, even after controlling for other factors. By the time they reach their mid-thirties, there is an $18,152 difference in annual personal income between college-educated women who marry before age twenty and those who wait until thirty or later.
Mayyasi dug deeper into the figures for the U.S. and found some startling numbersnumbers that will be great to use in your next argument with someone espousing "family values."
Less than half of adults are married, and almost half of births happen out of wedlock. Worldwide, though most people still marry, with 80% of both men and women hitched by 49 years old.
So the trend seems to be that, as a country gets richer, people marry later, and when women marry later, whether educated or not, they earn a lot more money. And, given that the country isn't going off the rails despite the fact that half of kids are born without married parents, this seems like a good thing.
Related Video: The Brand Evolution of De Beers
(Your browser doesn't support iframe)
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: KID-APPROVED VEG DISHES
description: FEATURED BLOG: Fork & Beans forkandbeans.com Cara Reed is creator of the website Fork & Beans (forkandbeans.com), a place where those with food allergies can let their imaginations run wild and free. She loves to teach parents that food can be fun, and that a little creativity can go a long way. Reed is also the author of the cookbook Decadent Gluten-Free Vegan Baking. VEGAN ICE CREAM SANDWICHES MAKES 6 SANDWICHES These ice cream sandwiches are the perfect treat to satisfy your (and your kiddos') warm-weather sweet tooth-and they're bound to make you love summer as much as you did as a child. Ice Cream 3 ripe bananas 1 Tbs. non-dairy milk 2 tsp. maple syrup, optional 1 tsp. vanilla extract Cookies
cup all-natural peanut butter, smooth or chunky
cup cooked white beans, rinsed and drained
cup gluten-free old-fashioned oats 2 Tbs. unsweetened applesauce 1 Tbs. pure maple syrup 1 tsp. vanilla extract
tsp. baking soda
tsp. salt
cup non-dairy chocolate chips, optional, plus more for rolling, optional 1 To make Ice Cream: Line 4-by-6-inch baking dish with parchment paper, allowing paper to hang over sides. 2 Blend all ingredients in high-speed blender until smooth. Spread in prepared dish, and freeze 2 hours, or until set. 3 To make Cookies: Preheat oven to 350F. Line baking sheet with parchment paper. 4 Blend all ingredients (except chocolate chips) in food processer until dough forms. Fold in chocolate chips, if using. 5 Roll dough into twelve 1-Tbs. balls, and place on prepared baking sheets. Flatten dough into 2-inch circles. 6 Bake 12 to 15 minutes, or until light brown along edges. Cool on baking sheet. Transfer to freezer until ready to assemble. 7 Unmold Ice Cream, and cut into 6 disks using 2-inch round cutter. Place each disk between 2 cookies. Roll edges in chocolate chips, if desired. Freeze until fully set. PER SANDWICH 261 CAL; 8 G PROT; 12 G TOTAL FAT (2 G SAT FAT); 30 G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 260 MG SOD; 5 G FIBER; 11G SUGARS Copyright Active Interest Media Jun 2016
This article was written by Cara Reed from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: ROAD TRIP!
description: FEW THINGS MAKE my heart race with happiness more than the prospect of a road trip-preferably a very long drive with people I love. I cherish those rambling conversations, random discoveries, and ever-optimistic quests for a decent cup of truck-stop coffee. Although my earlier trips were fueled by caffeine and sugar (I bid a wistful goodbye to Hot Tamales years ago), I've learned that when you're hitting the road, it's best to bring your own commissary, lest those rotating fried things in the gas station start to look edible. I now pack my own survival kit of nuts (pistachios keep you satisfyingly busy if you're the passenger), fruit (apples are amazingly durable), and lots of water. In this issue, you'll find plenty of inspiration for take-along food that goes well beyond nuts and fruit, including homemade energy bars (Weekend Whiz, p. 50) and five-ingredient summer soups that you can bring along in a Thermos ("Super Chill," p. 62). Plus, VT readers give their pointers for road-trip snacks in our "Tell VT" section (p. 12). If you're headed out to a ballgame or outdoor concert this summer, you'll likely find a surprising increase in vegetarian and vegan options on the menus. In "Outdoor Extravaganza" (p. 68), we bring you a sampling of outdoor-venue recipes-such as a delicious kale salad from Boston's Fenway Park-plus a guide to other veg-friendly venues, from raceways to festivals. Wherever your travels may take you this summer, even if it's only to the local park, enjoy the ride. And bring along an apple! Michele CrockettEditor in Chief Copyright Active Interest Media Jun 2016
This article was written by Michele Crockett from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: HAPPY EATING
description: Thinking about going vegan? As vegan chef and longtime VT contributor Julie Morris can attest, embracing a fully plant-based diet can be a transformative decision. "Plant-based eating is a celebration of nature's incredible bounty of health-giving and undeniably energizing edibles," says Morris. "It is, perhaps, the essence of happy eating." If you're interested in exploring the vegan lifestyle, check out our new online course, Essential Guide to Going Vegan, taught by Morris, who's authored several vegan cookbooks, including Superfood Snacks and Superfood Kitchen. You'll get trustworthy nutritional guidelines, cooking techniques (with video instruction), recipes, and meal plans-all in an easy-to-follow online format that you can access any time. vegetariantimes.com/govegan Copyright Active Interest Media Jun 2016
This article was written by Anonymous from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: SWEET AND EASY!
description: Nothing beats a summer cobbler for luscious simplicity IF YOU'VE EVER TRIED to incorporate cold butter into a dough recipe on a hot summer day, then you know how tricky it can be to get the texture right. And rubbing butter into a recipe that uses gluten-free flour? Let's just say it takes a light touch and a lot of patience to get the desired results. That's why VTcame up with a cobbler topping that does away with the butter-adding step altogether. In this recipe, the fat in a can of coconut milk stands in for the fat from butter, for a sweet summer treat that's both wheat- and dairy-free. BLUEBERRY COBBLER SERVES 12 This cobbler recipe is extremely versatile: If you're in a hurry, you can replace the flours and starches in the Topping with 14cup of any all-purpose gluten-free flour blend. You can also substitute any fruit for the blueberries, or mix and match fruits for different fillings. Filling 1/2 cup sugar 3 Tbs. cornstarch 1/8 tsp. salt 6 cups (2 lbs.) blueberries, fresh or frozen and thawed 1 tsp. melted margarine or coconut oil, optional Topping 1/2 cup white or brown rice flour 1/2 cup sorghum or oat flour 1/2 cup tapioca starch 4 cup cornstarch or potato starch 2 Tbs. sugar, plus more for sprinkling, if desired 1 Tbs. baking powder 1/2 tsp. salt 1 cup full-fat canned coconut milk, plus 2 Tbs. for brushing top 3 Tbs. turbinado sugar 1 Preheat oven to 375 F. 2 To make Filling: Whisk together sugar, cornstarch, and salt in large bowl. Add blueberries and margarine or oil, and stir to coat. Set aside. 3 To make Topping: Whisk together rice flour, sorghum or oat flour, tapioca starch, cornstarch or potato starch, sugar, baking powder, and salt in large bowl. Stir in coconut milk. Let stand 10 minutes, until dough firms into spongy consistency. 4 Spread Filling in 2 Yi- to 3-quart baking dish. Scoop 4-cup dollops of Topping over Filling with ice-cream scoop, leaving space between each dollop. Brush dollops with coconut milk; sprinkle Topping with turbinado sugar. Bake 1 hour, or until Filling is thick and bubbly and Topping is golden brown. Cool 15 minutes before serving. Serve warm. Copyright Active Interest Media Jun 2016
This article was written by Mary Chappell from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: super chill
description: Cold soup classics that satisfy on a hot summer's day WATERCRESS VICHYSSOISE We've added watercress to this classic French cold soup to give it extra color and zip. The soup is also delicious served hot. If you can't find crme frache, substitute sour cream. 1 Tbs. butter 2 medium leeks, halved, white and light-green parts thinly sliced (2 cups) 1 medium Russet or Yukon gold potato (6 oz.), peeled and diced 4 cups fresh watercress, plus more for garnish 3 Tbs. crme frache 1 Melt butter in medium saucepan over medium heat. Add leeks, cover, and cook 5 minutes, or until softened. Add potato and 3 cups water, cover, and bring to a boil. Reduce heat to medium-low, and simmer, covered, 20 minutes. 2 Remove soup from heat, and stir in watercress. Cover, and let stand 1 minute, or until watercress is wilted, but still bright green. Blend with immersion blender until smooth, then stir in crme frache. Season with salt and pepper, if desired. Chill before serving. Garnish with watercress sprigs. PER 1-CUP SERVING 129 CAL; 3 G PROT; 7 G TOTAL FAT (4 G SAT FAT); 14 G CARB; 23 MG CHOL; 51 MG SOD; 2 G FIBER; 3 G SUGARS GOLDEN BEET BORSCHT SERVES 4 This blended soup showcases the subtle, earthy flavor of golden beets, though it can also be made the traditional way, with red beets. Diced, cooked potato gives the soup extra body and texture for a filling summer appetizer or main dish. Serve hot or cold, with dark pumpernickel or rye bread. 1 lb. golden beets (about 3 baseball-sized beets), peeled and quartered 1 small yellow onion, peeled and quartered 1 large Yukon gold potato (whole, unpeeled) Vi cup coarsely chopped fresh dill 4 tsp. sour cream 1 Bring beets, onion, potato, and 3 cups water to a boil in medium saucepan. Season with salt and pepper, if desired; cover, and simmer 50 minutes to 1 hour, or until beets are tender. 2 Remove from heat, and transfer potato to plate to cool. Blend beets and onion with immersion blender until smooth. Cool. 3 Once potato is cool enough to handle, cut it into 14-inch dice and set aside. 4 To serve: Ladle 1 cup borscht into bowl. Place 14 cup diced potatoes in center of bowl, and sprinkle soup with 2 Tbs. dill. Garnish with 1 tsp. sour cream. PER 1-CUP SERVING 119 CAL; 3 G PROT; 1 G TOTAL FAT (<1 G SAT FAT); 25 G CARB; 2 MG CHOL; 68 MG SOD; 4 G FIBER; 7 G SUGARS
PERSIAN CUCUMBER SOUP SERVES 4 The thin skins and small seeds of Persian cucumbers mean you can grate this smaller variety straight into the soup. If you want to use conventional or English (hothouse) cucumbers, peel and seed them to maintain the soup's sweetness and smooth texture. 'A cup dried currants 4 Persian cucumbers, finely diced, or 1 large English cucumber, preferably organic, peeled and seeded 4 green onions, finely chopped ('A cup) A cup chopped fresh mint 2 cups kefir or buttermilk 1 PLACE CURRANTS IN SMALL BOWL, AND COVER WITH BOILING WATER. LET STAND 10 MINUTES, THEN DRAIN AND TRANSFER TO LARGE BOWL. 2 Coarsely grate cucumbers or pulse several times in food processor until finely chopped. (You should have 1A cups.) Transfer to bowl with currants, add all remaining ingredients, stir, and season with salt and pepper, if desired. Chill at least 30 minutes before serving. PER 1-CUP SERVING 116 CAL; 5 G PROT; 4 G TOTAL FAT (<1 G SAT FAT); 15 G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 61 MG SOD; 2 G FIBER; 13 G SUGARS
HUNGARIAN COLD CHERRY SOUP SERVES 4 One bite of this unusual soup and you'll be hooked on its fresh, sweet-tart flavor. Serve it as a palate-awakening appetizer or save it for dessert. Using fresh cherries, which give off more juice than frozen, will yield more soup. 1 lb. fresh or frozen pitted Bing cherries, halved 1 1/2 cups sour-cherry juice, such as Knudsen's 2 Tbs. honey 1/2 tsp. ground cinnamon 1/3 cup low-fat sour cream 1 BRING CHERRIES, CHERRY JUICE, HONEY, AND CINNAMON TO A BOIL IN MEDIUM SAUCEPAN. REDUCE HEAT TO MEDIUMLOW, AND SIMMER 5 MINUTES. 2 Stir A cup hot cherry juice into sour cream in bowl until smooth. Stir remaining mixture into soup. Season with pinch of salt, if desired, and chill. PER A- TO %-CUP SERVING 173 CAL; 2 G PROT; 2 G TOTAL FAT (<1 G SAT FAT); 40 G CARB; 3 MG CHOL; 38 MG SOD; 3 G FIBER; 33 G SUGARS
SPANISH GAZPACHO SERVES 4 Keep a jar of this refreshing tomato soup on hand all summer long for low-calorie lunches, dinners, appetizers, or snacks. The gazpacho will keep in the fridge up to three days. 1 1/2 lbs. tomatoes (about 5 medium tomatoes), cut into chunks, plus finely diced tomato, for garnish 1 large cucumber, peeled, seeded, and cut into chunks 1/2 small green bell pepper, seeded and cut into chunks, plus finely diced green bell pepper, for garnish 1/4 large white onion, cut into chunks 3 Tbs. garlic-flavored olive oil Place all ingredients in food processor and season with salt and pepper, if desired. Pulse 10 times, or until coarsely chopped. Let stand 30 minutes, or until vegetables have released their juices. Process until smooth. Chill at least 30 minutes before serving. Serve garnished with diced tomato and green bell pepper. PER 1-CUP SERVING 135 CAL; 2 G PROT; 11 G TOTAL FAT (2 G SAT FAT); 9 G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 11 MG SOD; 3 G FIBER; 6 G SUGARS
Copyright Active Interest Media Jun 2016
This article was written by Mary Chappell from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: JACKFRUIT BARBECUE
description: Pull out your slow cooker to try the latest, greatest meat substitute THERE'S A NEW whole-food meat alternative making waves in veg and vegan circles: canned, young green (underripe) jackfruit in brine. When cooked, the chunks of the tropical fruit's flesh come apart in tender shreds that mimic the texture of slow-cooked pork, beef, or chicken. In addition to being an all-natural, minimally processed meat alternative, canned jackfruit is ultra easy to prepare, as this recipe for pulled barbecue shows. LOW AND SLOW JACKFRUIT BARBECUE SERVES 8 The low, steady heat of a slow cooker tenderizes the jackfruit into melt-in-your-mouth strands that soak up all the flavors of a prepared barbecue sauce. Be sure to use young jackfruit canned in brine, not the ripe fruit processed with syrup. Serve on buns with coleslaw and extra sauce. 2 20-oz. cans green jackfruit in brine, drained 1 small onion, quartered and thinly sliced (1 cup) 2 Tbs. olive oil 3 cloves garlic, minced (1 Tbs.) 1 tsp. salt 1 tsp. chili powder 1 tsp. dried oregano 1 tsp. sugar, optional
tsp. ground black pepper 1 bay leaf 1
cups (one 12-oz. bottle) prepared barbecue sauce 1 Place jackfruit in large bowl, and cover with water. Soak 30 minutes. Drain, and pull apart pieces with fingers so they just begin to look shredded. Remove seeds. 2 Stir together jackfruit, onion, olive oil, garlic, salt, chili powder, oregano, sugar (if using), pepper, bay leaf, and 1 Vi cups water in 4- to 6-quart slow cooker. Cover, and cook on high 4 hours. Shred jackfruit into strands with 2 forks. 3 Stir in barbecue sauce, reduce slow cooker to low, and cook 1 hour, or until sauce thickens. Season with salt and pepper, if desired. PER SERVING (WITHOUT BUN) 84 CAL; 1 G PROT; 5 G TOTAL FAT (<1 G SAT FAT); 10 G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 906 MG SOD; 1 G FIBER; <1 G SUGARS Copyright Active Interest Media Jun 2016
This article was written by Mary Chappell from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: WHAT'S YOUR HUMMUS PERSONALITY TYPE?
description: Take your pick among five tasty choices Hummus is a household staple for many vegetarians, including the VT staff. As we tasted the varieties below, we noticed that each hummus type attracts a different personality. Here are five of our favorite brands and flavors, plus our insights about the people who love them. Make your own! If you want to try making your own hummus, check out our simple, vegan hummus recipes at vegetariantimes .com/hummus. VARIETY * Original If you love this, you're... laid-back and appreciate the simpler things in life. OUR CHOICE Trader Joe's - Smooth and Creamy Classic Hummus This simple, classic variety offers a pleasantly smooth, whipped texture and subtle sweetness. 10 oz./$2.99; traderjoes.com VARIETY * Classic, but with a twist If you love this, you're... easygoing and energetic, with an even-keeled nature. OUR CHOICE Blue Moose of Boulder - Roasted Red Pepper Hummus This Colorado-made hummus has a balanced, fresh flavor with a nice. peppery finish. 7 oz./$3.00; bluemooseofboulder.com VARIETY * Bold flavor If you love this, you're... an out-of-the box thinker who gravitates toward adventure and creativity. OUR CHOICE Hope - Organic Thai Coconut Curry Hummus Complex and unexpected, the unique flavor of this tasty dip truly breaks the hummus mold. 8 oz./$3.99; hopefoods.com VARIETY * Hybrid If you love this, you're... eclectic and have a zest for life. OUR CHOICE Engine 2 - Spicy Black Bean Hummus Part hummus, part bean dip, this creamy blend offers a hearty blackbean taste. 8 oz./$2.99; engine2diet.com VARIETY * Spicy If you love this, you're... daring, audacious, and never back down. OUR CHOICE Falafel King - Red Chile Spicy Hummus Not for the fainthearted, this super-spicy hummus still manages to pack a fantastic flavor underneath the heat. 10 oz./$4.49; falafelkingfoods.com Copyright Active Interest Media Jun 2016
This article was written by Kristen Kuchar from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: FEEDBACK
description: THE DARK SIDE OF DAIRY? I was dismayed to read the article "Dairy Facts & Fiction" [April 2016, p. 26], which makes the rather bold statement that "There is no credible proof that a glass of milk or a square of stinky cheese is harmful for most people." While this statement in and of itself is probably true, it's also very misleading. Most people will not have just a single glass of milk or one piece of cheese and stop for the day. Countless studies have shown that consumption of dairy products can have a damaging effect on the body and contribute to a range of illnesses. I would challenge the author to cite studies not funded by the dairy industry showing proof that dairy is as healthy as he claims. -Mark Z, via e-mail The article "Dairy Facts & Fiction" was surprising in that the animal-welfare aspect was completely ignored. I understand that VTfocuses mostly on the health and nutritional aspects of a plant-based diet, but you do, at least sometimes, mention the ethical side. For instance, the same issue featured an article on adopting a farm animal [Trending Veg, p. 20], and even highlighted a quote on how adopted animals never fear being separated from family again-yet repeated impregnation and separation from calves is precisely what makes the dairy industry move! I wish your article had noted that, at least on some level, animals are being exploited. -Amy H., via e-mail Copyright Active Interest Media Jun 2016
This article was written by Anonymous from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Veg-Friendly Summertime Spots
description: Check out these veg-friendly summertime spots and shindigs in your neck of the woods
THE GOVERNORS BALL MUSIC FESTIVAL
New York City | NY
The food lineup at this festival is almost as impressive as the music, attracting the Big Apple's best food trucks and restaurants, with vegan and vegetarian choices galore (denoted with handy symbols on the festival's website).
CITIZENS BANK PARK
Philadelphia | PA
Even meat-loving Phillies fans will dig this ball park's wild mushroom and tofu cheesesteak, a hearty veg version of the iconic Philly sandwich. Also delish: vegan three-bean chili nachos and seasoned broccoli rabe.
SONOMA RACEWAY
Sonoma | CA
A kale and quinoa salad at a Nascar race? Yup--the one served at this track's hospitality suites is made with fresh herbs and vegetables plucked from an on-site organic garden, which is maintained using recycled water.
ARROWHEAD STADIUM
Kansas City | MO
In a city synonymous with meaty barbecue, the Chiefs' stadium stands out for offering plenty of alternative fare, including vegetarian tacos and spicy lentil and veggie burgers with sweet potato fries.
SANTA FE OPERA HOUSE/ CROSBY THEATRE
Santa Fe | NM
It's customary at this hilltop opera house to have a pre-performance "tailgate picnic" in the parking lot, complete with tablecloths, silverware, and wine. Gourmet vegan and vegetarian boxes are available for pre-order.
LEVIS STADIUM
San Francisco | CA
The 49ers' new home boasts at least one vegan item at every permanent food stand, and we're not just talking veggie dogs: think BBQ jackfruit sandwiches and cactus tortas.
PITCHFORK MUSIC FESTIVAL
Chicago | IL
An abundance of vegetarians on staff at pitchfork.com means you can count on an abundance of meatless dishes at its annual festival. Last year's favorites: seitan gyros, country-fried vegetarian "bacon", and fried vegan cheesecake on a stick.
BONNAROO MUSIC & ARTS FESTIVAL
Manchester I TN
No need to bring a tent's worth of food to this camping festival on a 700-acre farm--most of the 100-plus vendors offer excellent veg options. Download the festival app to sort by food type (vegan, vegetarian, gluten-free, organic).
Copyright Active Interest Media Jun 2016
This article was written by Anonymous from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: STILL HUNGRY?
description: Check out these veg-friendly summertime spots and shindigs in your neck of the woods THE GOVERNORS BALL MUSIC FESTIVAL New York City | NY The food lineup at this festival is almost as impressive as the music, attracting the BIG APPLE'S BEST FOOD TRUCKS AND RESTAURANTS, with vegan and vegetarian choices galore (denoted with handy symbols on the festival's Web site). CITIZENS BANK PARK Philadelphia | PA Even meat-loving Phillies fans will dig this ball park's WILD MUSHROOM AND TOFU CHEESESTEAK, a hearty veg version of the iconic Philly sandwich. Also delish: VEGAN THREE-BEAN CHILI NACHOS and SEASONED BROCCOLI RABE. SONOMA RACEWAY Sonoma | CA A KALE AND QUINOA salad at a NASCAR race? Yup-the one served at this track's hospitality suites is made with fresh herbs and vegetables plucked from an on-site organic garden, which is maintained using recycled water. ARROWHEAD STADIUM Kansas City | MO In a city synonymous with meaty barbecue, the Chiefs' stadium stands out for offering plenty of alternative fare, including VEGETARIAN TACOS and SPICY LENTIL-AND-VEGGIE BURGERS WITH SWEET POTATO FRIES. SANTA FE OPERA HOUSE/ CROSBY THEATRE Santa Fe | NM It's customary at this hilltop opera house to have a pre-performance "tailgate picnic" in the parking lot, complete with tablecloths, silverware, and wine. GOURMET VEGAN AND VEGETARIAN BOXES are available for pre-order. LEVI S STADIUM San Francisco | CA The 49ers' new home boasts at least one vegan item at every permanent food stand, and we're not just talking veggie dogs: think BBQ JACKFRUIT SANDWICHES and CACTUS TORTAS. PITCHFORK MUSIC FESTIVAL Chicago | IL An abundance of vegetarians on staff at pitchfork.com means you can count on an abundance of meatless dishes at its annual festival. Last year's favorites: SEITAN GYROS, COUNTRY-FRIED VEGETARIAN "BACON," and FRIED VEGAN CHEESECAKE ON A STICK. BONNAROO MUSIC & ARTS FESTIVAL Manchester I TN No need to bring a tent's worth of food to this camping festival on a 700-acre farm-most of the 100-PLUS VENDORS OFFER EXCELLENT VEG OPTIONS. Download the festival app to sort by food type (vegan, vegetarian, gluten-free, organic). Copyright Active Interest Media Jun 2016
This article was written by Anonymous from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: FOOD As ART
description: Creative arts publisher Phaidon Press embarks on a plant-based-cookbook publishing program WHEN A RENOWNED global publisher like Phaidon Press decides to release three vegetarian cookbooks at the same time, it's a cause for celebration-and time to take notice. "We wanted to make a statement that plant-based cooking is something deep and real, something that will continue," says Emilia Terragni, Phaidons cookbook publisher. As eclectic and original as the publishing house itself, these three titles- Raw: Recipes for a Modern Vegetarian Lifestyle, The Middle Eastern Vegetarian Cookbook, and Studio Ola fur E/iasson: The Kitchen-offer an exquisite overview of where vegetarian cooking is today, and where it's headed in the future. MORE ON PHAIDON PRESS For more information about Phaidon Press cookbooks, check out our Q & A with Emilia Terragni at vegetariantimes .com/phaidon or log onto to phaidon.com. Row: Recipes for a Modern Vegetarian Lifestyle BY SOLLA EIRKSDTTIR Who knew an Icelandic cookbook could be so... green? From the opening photos of grassy hills and flowering lichen to the fresh, vegetable-centric recipes, Sola Eirksdttir paints a vibrant picture of vegetarian food in Iceland, whether it's the dishes she prepares at home or at Gl, her restaurant in Reykjavik. BEAUTIFUL RAW ROOT SALAD SERVES 6 A mandoline or vegetable peeler slices vegetables into tender petals that can be artfully arranged on salad plates. Dressing
cup walnut or olive oil 3 Tbs. lemon juice 3 Tbs. fresh mandarin orange juice or orange juice 1 Tbs. unseasoned rice vinegar 1 tsp. ras-el-hanout spice blend 1 tsp. onion powder
tsp. sea salt Salad 4 cups thinly sliced red cabbage 2 carrots, thinly sliced (1 Zi cups) 1 zucchini, thinly sliced (lineups) 1 yellow beet, thinly sliced (1 cup) 1 candy cane or red beet, thinly sliced 0 cup) 5 radishes, thinly sliced (Va cup) 1 pear, halved and thinly sliced 1 cup fresh or frozen pomegranate seeds 1/3 cup coarsely chopped pistachios 10 dried Incan golden berries or raisins
cup cilantro, mint, basil, and/or parsley, finely chopped 1 To make Dressing: Shake together all ingredients in jar. 2 To make Salad: Massage Dressing into cabbage, carrots, zucchini, beets, and radishes with hands in large bowl. Season with salt and pepper, if desired, and let stand 15 to 20 minutes. Top with remaining ingredients before serving. PER 1 -CUP SERVING 231 CAL; 5 G PROT; 13 G TOTAL FAT (1 G SAT FAT); 28GCARB; 0 MG CHOL; 145 MG SOD; 7 G FIBER; 16 G SUGARS VEGAN BURGERS SERVES 6 Solla Eirksdttir serves her burgers on whole-grain "seed" bread instead of buns, and tops them with homemade cashew mayonnaise, avocado slices, tomato slices, and her own coconut bacon. 3 Tbs. vegetable oil, divided 5 cups thinly sliced white or cremini mushrooms 4 cloves garlic, minced (4 tsp.) 2 cups cooked black beans 1 sweet potato, baked, peeled, and cut into cubes (2 cups)
cup almond flour 1/3 cup ground chia seeds 1 Tbs. smoked paprika 1 tsp. onion powder 1 tsp. salt
tsp. ground black pepper 1 Heat 1 Tbs. oil in large saucepan over medium heat. Add mushrooms and garlic, and cook 5 minutes, or until beginning to brown. Transfer to large bowl, and add all remaining ingredients. Knead together with hands. Divide mixture into 6 patties. Transfer to plate, and chill 30 minutes. 2 Heat remaining 2 Tbs. oil in large skillet over medium heat. Add burgers, and cook 3 to 4 minutes per side, or until golden brown on both sides. PER BURGER 345 CAL; 13 G PROT; 18 G TOTAL FAT (2 G SAT FAT); 38 G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 493 MG SOD; 13 G FIBER; 6 G SUGARS The Middle Eastern Vegetarian Cookbook BY SALMA HAGE At last! A compendium of Middle Eastern dishes written especially for vegetarian cooks. Salma Hage's recipes range from Lebanese classics to inspired modern creations that can all be prepared in a home kitchen. GINGER, STRAWBERRY, AND MINT LIMEADE SERVES 4 Ginger, mint, and citrus zests are steeped in boiling water for a tangy base to this refreshing cooler. 5 oz. fresh lime juice
cup fresh lemon juice 3
Tbs. grated lime zest 2 Tbs. grated lemon zest 2 Tbs. honey 1 2-inch piece fresh ginger, peeled and sliced 20 mint leaves, plus more for garnish 10 strawberries, hulled and sliced Ice Lime wedges, for garnish 1 Place lime and lemon juices and zests in heatproof pitcher, and add honey, ginger, and mint leaves. Stir in 4 34 cups boiling water. Set aside to steep and cool. (This will take 1 hour.) 2 Pure strawberries in blender until smooth. Stir strawberry pure into zest-and-ginger mixture. Serve over ice garnished with mint leaves and lime wedges. PER 134-CUP SERVING 61 CAL; <1 G PROT; <1 G TOTAL FAT (<1 G SAT FAT); 17 G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 2 MG SOD; 2 G FIBER; 11 G SUGARS LEBANESE VEGAN MOUSSAKA SERVES 4 The Lebanese name for this dish is maghmour. You can store any extra 7-Spice Seasoning in an airtight container and use it to season soups, stews, roasted vegetables, and dips. Lebanese 7-Spice Seasoning 5 Tbs. ground allspice 5 Tbs. ground cloves 4 Tbs. grated nutmeg 4 Tbs. ground fenugreek 4 Tbs. ground ginger 3 1/2 Tbs. ground cinnamon 3 1/2 Tbs. ground black pepper Moussaka 4 Tbs. gluten-free flour blend 2 tsp. Lebanese 7-Spice Seasoning 2 large eggplants, sliced 1/2-inch thick 2 Tbs. olive oil 2 14-oz. cans chickpeas, rinsed and drained Tomato Sauce 2 Tbs. olive oil 1 medium onion, finely chopped (1 1/2 cups) 4 cloves garlic, minced (4 tsp.) 1 tsp. ground cumin 1 bay leaf 6 large, fresh tomatoes, finely chopped 7 sun-dried tomatoes, preserved in oil, drained and chopped 2 Tbs. tomato paste 1 14-oz. can diced or chopped tomatoes 1 tsp. unsweetened pomegranate molasses 2 Tbs. lemon juice 1 Preheat oven to 400F. Line baking sheet with parchment paper. 2 To make Lebanese 7-Spice Seasoning: Stir together all ingredients in lidded jar. 3 To make Moussaka: Stir together gluten-free flour blend and Lebanese 7-Spice Seasoning on large plate, and season with salt and pepper, if desired. Dredge eggplant in flour mixture until lightly coated. Transfer to prepared baking sheet, drizzle with olive oil, and bake 10 minutes. Flip, and bake 10 minutes more, or until crisp and brown. Cool on baking sheet. 4 Meanwhile, to make Tomato Sauce: Heat oil in large skillet over medium heat. Add onion, and saut 2 minutes. Add garlic, and cook 1 minute, then add cumin and bay leaf, and saut 1 to 2 minutes more. Stir in fresh chopped tomatoes, and cook 3 minutes. Add sundried tomatoes, tomato paste, can of diced tomatoes, pomegranate molasses, lemon juice, and 'A cup water, and bring to a boil. Reduce heat to medium-low, and simmer 20 to 30 minutes, or until sauce is thick, stirring occasionally. Season with salt and pepper, if desired, and remove bay leaf. 5 Layer eggplant, tomato sauce, and chickpeas in deep baking dish (3 to 4 layers), ending with a layer of tomato sauce. Bake 40 minutes, or until vegetables are tender and sauce is bubbling. Cool, and serve at room temperature. PER SERVING 596 CAL; 20 G PROT; 20 G TOTAL FAT (3 G SAT FAT); 95 G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 555 MG SOD; 30 G FIBER; 38 G SUGARS Studio Olafur Eliasson: The Kitchen BY OLAFUR ELIASSON, WITH A FOREWORD BY ALICE WATERS Fostering a creative environment for artists means nourishing them body and soul at Studio Olafur Eliasson in Berlin, Germany. Studio members gather each day in the canteen to share a freshly prepared lunch around communal tables. Through drawings, images, and, of course, recipes, The Kitchen tells the story of how the canteen came to be and the role it plays in studio members' collaborations. FUSILLI WITH GREEN BEANS, ROASTED POTATOES, AND PESTO GENOVESE SERVES 6 | 30 MINUTES OR LESS Turn pasta with pesto sauce into a hearty, texture-laced treat when you fill it out with potatoes, green beans, and a hint of spice. Pesto Genovese 3 Tbs. pine nuts 2 cloves garlic, peeled 21/2 cups fresh basil leaves 1/2 cup olive oil 1/4 cup grated Parmesan cheese 2-3 Tbs. grated Pecorino Romano cheese Fusilli 1 1/4 lbs. Yukon gold potatoes, peeled and cubed (3 cups) 2 small crushed chiles, such Thai bird chiles, or 2 tsp. crushed red pepper flakes 4 Tbs. olive oil 3 cups trimmed green beans (Ya lb.) 1 1/2 lbs. fusilli or other short pasta 3/4 cup Pesto Genovese Grated Parmesan, optional 1 To make Pesto Genovese: Finely chop pine nuts and garlic in food processor. Add basil and olive oil, and process until smooth. Add Parmesan and Pecorino, and blend until smooth. 2 To make Fusilli: Preheat oven to 400F. 3 Toss potatoes and chiles with salt and pepper in olive oil on baking sheet. Roast 15 to 20 minutes, or until they are browned and some are crisp. 4 Meanwhile, cook green beans in large pot of boiling, salted water 5 minutes, or until crisp-tender. Drain, cut in half, and set aside. 5 Cook pasta according to package directions for al dente. Drain, and reserve 1 cup cooking water. Return pasta to pot, stir in potatoes, green beans, Ya cup Pesto Genovese (reserve remaining pesto for another use), and 2 to 3 Tbs. pasta-cooking water. Season with salt and pepper, if desired, and serve with Parmesan (if using). Serve immediately. PER 1 1/2-CUP SERVING 735 CAL; 21 G PROT; 28 G TOTAL FAT (5 G SAT FAT); 104 G CARB; 6 MG CHOL; 144 MG SOD; 7 G FIBER; 6 G SUGARS TUSCAN KALE RISOTTO WITH MUSHROOMS AND ROSEMARY SERVES 6 A classic risotto takes time (and a host of different pots and pans!), but the creamy, satisfying results are worth it. 3 Tbs. olive oil, divided 5 oz. (1/2 bunch) Tuscan or dinosaur kale, ribs removed, leaves and ribs chopped separately A cup plus 1/3 cup dry white wine, divided 8 oz. white mushrooms, chopped (2 cups) 1 tsp. finely chopped fresh rosemary 1 tsp. mascarpone cheese, optional 3 Tbs. unsalted butter 2 medium onions, chopped (3 cups)
head celery, stalks finely chopped, leaves reserved (VA cups) 3 cups brown Arborio rice 6
cups low-sodium vegetable broth, warmed 2 cups grated Parmesan cheese 1 Heat 1 Tbs. oil in medium saucepan over medium heat. Add kale ribs, and saut 2 to 3 minutes, or until softened. Add kale leaves and A cup wine, and season with salt and pepper, if desired. Cover, and set aside. 2 Heat remaining 2 Tbs. oil in large skillet over medium heat. Add mushrooms and rosemary, and saut 5 to 7 minutes, or until mushrooms are browned and tender. Stir in mascarpone, if using. 3 Heat butter in large saucepan or Dutch oven over medium heat. Add onion and celery, and cook 7 to 10 minutes, or until browned. Stir in celery leaves, then rice, stirring to coat each grain. Cook 1 to 2 minutes, or until rice is translucent. Add 'A cup wine, and cook until liquid is absorbed; stir constantly. 4 Add 1 cup broth at a time to risotto, cooking and stirring between each addition until liquid is mostly absorbed. Cook in this manner 30 to 40 minutes, or until rice is al dente. Stir in kale, mushrooms, and Parmesan. Cover, remove from heat, and let stand 5 minutes. Season with salt and pepper, if desired; adjust texture by adding more hot vegetable broth, if needed. PER 1 Vi-CUP SERVING 537 CAL; 17 G PROT; 16 G TOTAL FAT (8 G SAT FAT); 89 G CARB; 38 MG CHOL; 664 MG SOD; 10 G FIBER; 9 G SUGARS Copyright Active Interest Media Jun 2016
This article was written by Mary Chappell from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: LOVE ME Tender
description: Easy recipes that make the most of seasonal asparagus THESE DAYS, you can easily buy asparagus year-round, but the imported bunches of the veggies simply can't compare to the tasty (often local) stalks found in late spring and early summer. Less is more when it comes to preparing peak-season asparagus, and a light sauce is often all you need to showcase these unique green spears at their tender best. ASPARAGUS TEMPURA WITH ORANGE DIPPING SAUCE SERVES 4 I 30 MINUTES OR LESS For this appetizer, use the thickest, sturdiest asparagus you can find so that the spears hold their texture and shape when fried in hot oil. For a light meal, you could also pile the crispy veggies atop a tossed salad and use the dipping sauce as dressing. Sauce 3 Tbs. fresh orange juice 1 Tbs. grated orange zest 1 Tbs. reduced-sodium soy sauce 1 Tbs. seasoned rice vinegar 1 Tbs. sweet chili sauce 1 tsp. grated fresh ginger
tsp. toasted sesame oil 1 Tbs. chopped cilantro Tempura 5 cups peanut oil or vegetable oil 1
cups brown rice flour
tsp. salt 8-12 oz. lager beer, such as Sapporo 12 thick asparagus spears, bottom 2 inches trimmed off 1 large red onion, cut into rings (about 12 large and small rings) 1 To make Sauce: Whisk together all ingredients in small bowl. Set aside. 2 To make Tempura: Heat oil in large saucepan or Dutch oven to 365F. 3 Whisk together rice flour and salt in large bowl. Add beer, and whisk to form smooth batter. 4 Working in several small batches, dip asparagus and onion rings into batter to coat, then use tongs to lower vegetables into oil. Deep-fry vegetables 2 minutes, or until golden brown. Using tongs, transfer vegetables to paper towels to drain. 5 Divide Tempura among 4 plates. Sprinkle with cilantro. Serve with Sauce. PER SERVING (3 ASPARAGUS SPEARS AND 3 ONION RINGS) 375 CAL; 7 G PROT; 13 G TOTAL FAT (2 G SAT FAT); 59 G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 542 MG SOD; 5 G FIBER; 7 G SUGARS O ASPARAGUS WITH GRIBICHE SAUCE SERVES 4 I 30 MINUTES OR LESS Gribiche is a cold French sauce made with capers and eggs. It has a bright, tangy flavor and offers a foolproof, lighter alternative to hollandaise.
cup olive oil 2 Tbs. drained capers, coarsely chopped 2 Tbs. finely chopped shallot 1 Tbs. chopped flat-leaf parsley 1 Tbs. lemon juice 1 Tbs. reduced-fat sour cream 1
tsp. Dijon mustard 1 hard-boiled egg, chopped 1 Tbs. chopped fresh tarragon, plus 4 tarragon sprigs, for garnish 20 thick green asparagus spears, bottom 2 inches trimmed 1 Whisk together oil, capers, shallot, parsley, lemon juice, sour cream, and mustard in small bowl. Fold in egg and tarragon, and season sauce with salt and pepper, if desired. 2 Bring large skillet of salted water to a boil. Add asparagus and cook 2 minutes, or until crisp-tender, depending on thickness. Transfer asparagus to baking sheet with tongs, and refrigerate to cool quickly. 3 Arrange 5 asparagus spears on each plate. Spoon 2 Tbs. gribiche sauce over each serving. Garnish with tarragon sprigs. PER SERVING 174 CAL; 4 G PROT; 16 G TOTAL FAT (3 G SAT FAT); 6 G CARB; 48 MG CHOL; 168 MG SOD; 2 G FIBER; 3 G SUGARS
WARM SPINACH AND ASPARAGUS SALAD WITH FENNEL VINAIGRETTE SERVES 4 | 30 MINUTES OR LESS Fennel, feta cheese, oregano, and olives bring out asparagus's Mediterranean side in this tender salad. Thin asparagus spears work best in this recipe. 4 Tbs. olive oil 1
Tbs. sherry vinegar 1 Tbs. chopped fresh oregano 1
tsp. fennel seeds, coarsely ground in mortar with pestle 1 small fennel bulb, thinly sliced
small red onion, thinly sliced
cup pitted Kalamata olives, halved
cup dried currants 12 oz. thin asparagus spears, halved 1 6-oz. package baby spinach leaves
cup coarsely crumbled feta cheese 1 Whisk together oil, vinegar, oregano, and fennel seeds in small bowl. Season with salt and pepper, if desired. Add sliced fennel, onion, olives, and currants, and toss to combine. 2 Meanwhile, heat 1 cup water in large nonstick skillet over medium-high heat. Add asparagus; cover and cook 1 minute, or until crisp-tender. Drain quickly, then return asparagus to same skillet. 3 Immediately add fennel mixture and spinach to asparagus, and toss to coat. (Residual heat from asparagus and skillet will slightly wilt the spinach.) Sprinkle with feta, and toss gently. Season with salt and pepper, if desired. PER SERVING 268 CAL; 8 G PROT; 20 G TOTAL FAT (6 G SAT FAT); 17 G CARB; 25 MG CHOL; 318 MG SOD; 5 G FIBER; 11 G SUGARS
CURRIED QUINOA SALAD WITH ASPARAGUS AND PURPLE CAULIFLOWER SERVES 4 Pencil-thin asparagus spears are added raw to this salad, which gets its crunch from cauliflower and its sweetness from dried apricots. 1 cup quinoa, rinsed and drained 3 Tbs. lemon juice 1 Tbs. grated lemon zest 5 Tbs. olive oil 2 Tbs. white balsamic vinegar 2 Tbs. agave nectar 1 Tbs. curry powder 1
tsp. whole coriander seeds, coarsely cracked in mortar with pestle
cup chopped cilantro 2 green onions, chopped (J4 cup) 12 oz. pencil-thin asparagus, cut into -inch pieces
small head purple or white cauliflower, cut into Vi-inch pieces (1 cup)
cup coarsely chopped dried apricots 1 Place quinoa in large saucepan with enough cold water to cover by 2 inches. Bring to boil over high heat. Boil 8 minutes, or until almost tender, stirring occasionally. Drain, and spread on rimmed baking sheet to cool. 2 Stir together lemon juice and lemon zest in large bowl. Whisk in oil, vinegar, agave nectar, curry powder, and coriander. Stir in cilantro, green onions, and quinoa. Gently fold in asparagus, cauliflower, and apricots. Season with salt and pepper, if desired. PER 54-CUP SERVING 216 CAL; 6 G PROT; 14 G TOTAL FAT (2 G SAT FAT); 36 G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 18 MG SOD; 5 G FIBER; 11 G SUGARS O
ROASTED ASPARAGUS WITH WALNUT CHARMOULA SERVES 4 Charmoula is a North African sauce made of herbs, lemon juice, oil, and spices. Traditionally served with seafood or meat, it's also delicious with vegetables. 1 tsp. cumin seeds 'A cup chopped, toasted walnuts A cup coarsely chopped fresh parsley 1 green onion, chopped 4 Tbs. olive oil, divided 1 Tbs. grated lemon zest 1 tsp. sweet paprika 'A tsp. ground turmeric 20 thick asparagus spears Lemon wedges, for garnish 1 Preheat oven to 400F. Toast cumin seeds in small, heavy saucepan over medium heat 1 minute, or until lightly browned and fragrant. Transfer to mortar, and coarsely grind with pestle. 2 Transfer cumin to medium bowl. Add walnuts, parsley, onion, 3 Tbs. oil, lemon zest, paprika, and turmeric. Season with salt and pepper, if desired. 3 Place asparagus on large baking sheet. Drizzle with remaining 1 Tbs. oil, and season with salt and pepper, if desired. Depending on thickness, roast asparagus 7 minutes, or until crisp-tender. Transfer to plates. 4 Spoon cup charmoula over asparagus. (Reserve remaining sauce for another use.) Garnish with lemon wedges. PER SERVING 135 CAL; 4 G PROT; 12 G TOTAL FAT (1 G SAT FAT); 6 G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 6 MG SOD; 3 G FIBER; 2 G SUGARS 0 Copyright Active Interest Media Jun 2016
This article was written by Sarah Tenaglia from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: AFRICAN VEG FLAVOR
description: A Senegalese chef shares his love of West African cuisine By Kathryn m. werntz SENEGAL IS RENOWNED for its beaches, music, and hospitality, but one Senegalese chef, Pierre Thiam, is working to spread the word about the flavorful foods of his country, including its plethora of vegetarian meals. Thiam, who has owned two restaurants in New York, is author of Yolele! Recipes from the Heart of Senegal and, most recently, Senegal: Modern Senegalese Recipes from the Source to the Bowl. He spoke to us about vegetarian foods in West Africa. HOW TO PREPARE FONIO This healthy, gluten-free grain can be used as a side in the same way you would use rice, couscous, or quinoa. There are two basic methods for steaming fonio: You can cook it in a steamer basket (the traditional way) or just in a pot on the stove. I've also had success cooking it in the rice cooker, if you have one (keep the ratio of fonio to water 1:1). You can always add a little bit of butter or oil to the fonio while cooking to keep the grains more separated, if you'd like. Reprinted from Senegal: Modern Senegalese Recipes from the Source to the Bowl, by Pierre Thiam with Jennifer Sit. Recipes
Pierre Thiam; Photos
Evan Sung. What are some of the most popular fruits and vegetables grown in Senegal? Mango, of course, but also baobab fruit, tamarind, and ditakh-a superfood that's extremely rich in vitamin C. What's your favorite? Madd-it's a sweetand-sour fruit that comes during the rainy season. Which vegetarian ingredients are key to Senegalese dishes? Local ingredients that are very rich in protein, such as nib, our version of black-eyed peas. Traditionally, a nib dish is made with sweet potatoes in a tomatobased stew. It makes a perfectly balanced and delicious meal. There's also fonio, which I love. It's one of the oldest-if not the oldest-grains, and it's rich in protein and vitamins, and easy to digest. You can find fonio on Amazon and also in African grocery stores in big cities like New York. Which ingredient is so dearto the heart of a Senegalese that if it were in a dish, he'd just have to try it? A great choice would be nttou, a fermented locust bean that's a great substitute for fish sauce. You see it everywhere in our cooking-not only in Senegal but throughout West Africa. Nttou is strong and pungent, and recently I've seen it packaged in a powder-so people can just add it to their sauce. Senegalese people would love and recognize it in a dish- the flavor is particular. In Senegal, the biggest holiday is Tabaski, the Muslim New Year. Are veg dishes served? Sauce Feuille is one, usually prepared with cassava leaves or sweet potato leaves, tomatoes, and ground peanuts. It's a bit like creamed spinach but healthierwithout dairy. You've owned several restaurants in the United States, and you just opened a restaurant, Nok by Alara, in Lagos, Nigeria. Are there vegetarian options on your menus? Always! You can't have a restaurant without vegetarian options now-not in New York and not even in Nigeria. It's amazing. And you can't just have one option- you need a couple! Kathryn M. Werntz is a restaurateur, teacher, farmer, and writer based in Germany and Senegal. She's passionate about dark chocolate, long bike rides, African dancing, good food, and sustainable farming. Copyright Active Interest Media Jun 2016
This article was written by Kathryn Werntz from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: YOSSY AREFI
description: COOKBOOK AUTHOR, BLOGGER, AND FOOD PHOTOGRAPHER She champions fresh-fruit desserts INSPIRED BY HER parents, who gardened and cooked at their home in Seattle, Yossy Arefi grew up with a love of fresh ingredients. Here, she explains how she picks the berries and fruit for desserts featured in her new book, Sweeter off the Vine: Fruit Desserts for Every Season (Ten Speed Press, 2016). What's the best way to pick fresh berries or fruit for baking in desserts? Look for plump berries without any bruises or surface wrinkles, and green stems (if they're still attached). Usually, berries from the farmers' market-especially strawberries and raspberries-have a shorter shelf life than supermarket berries, so plan to use them quickly after bringing them home. You can cook berries that have gone a bit soft into jam or sauce. What are your go-to, essential baking tools? You can bake just about anything with a scale, bowl, spoon, and pan-but I'd also add a rubber spatula, whisk, microplane, and a good sharp knife. I also love my stand mixer-I can't imagine making cakes and meringues without it. Which fruits or berries are best right now? Rhubarb, strawberries, and cherries both sweet and sour, plus herbs like mint and lemon verbena. As a food photographer, how do you make desserts look beautiful when presented to eat? Start with the best-looking ingredients, and keep things simple. You can't beat a slice of cake topped with tiny crimson strawberries macerated with just enough sugar to make them extra juicy, and a fat dollop of cream. Your book offers so many amazing-sounding recipes. What are a few favorites? This time of year, I love the Pistachio Cake with Strawberries in Lavender Sugar and the Rhubarb and Rye Upside-Down Cake. Copyright Active Interest Media Jun 2016
This article was written by Anonymous from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Owen + Alchemy
description: CHICAGO, ILLINOI * OWENANDALCHEMY.COM This Chicago juice hotspot serves tasty concoctions made from fresh, local ingredients THE BACKSTORY Owen + Alchemy is a juice apothecary where you can buy cold-pressed, plant-based juices, smoothies, nut milks, foods, and custom herbal blends. As co-owner Anne Owen recalls, when she and her partner, chef Jared Van Camp, first imagined the store, "We tried to pay homage to and include elements of an old-world apothecary, but with a modern twist." The duo opened Owen + Alchemy in late 2014. "In the past, an apothecary was a place you'd go in order to feel better, or to find some crazy concoction that would heal you," Owen says, "which is what we hope is part of the customer experience here." WHY WE LOVE IT The juices are rich in both taste and nutrients. They can be made fresh on the spot or purchased in minimalist glass bottles. Unexpected combinations surprise the taste buds: No. 14 (pineapple, jalapeo, and cucumber) is sweet and refreshing, with an unexpected, heady kick; No. 21 (blueberry, basil, grapefruit, and lime) features tangy, savory, and sweet notes. And if you're looking to detoxify, go for No. 2, a lively green combination of kale, romaine lettuce, Napa cabbage, parsley, celery, cucumber, and sea salt. Nut milks are sprouted and rich in omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids, with natural spices and syrups weaved in to create smooth, slightly sweet drinks, while the smoothies blend nut butters and local, seasonal produce with other earthy elements like raw honey and aloe. Looking to relieve stress? Consider the herbal blends-all based in Chinese medicine and either soluble in hot water or perfect for sprinkling into smoothies or other beverages. A daily rotation of seasonal soups and salads is also available. The decor is sleek and minimalist-yet another reminder that you can't eat or drink much cleaner than this-with sunny, window-side seating. Step outside onto Milwaukee Avenue and you're smack-dab in the middle of the bustling Logan Square neighborhood, known for its hip boutiques and hot dining options. BONUS Owen + Alchemy offers subscriptions that work like a CSA: Van Camp hand-selects six juices and a snack to be picked up in-store, delivered locally, or shipped across the country via FedEx or UPS. Amy Bizzarri is a Chicago-based travel writer who specializes in stories about family adventure, vintage/retro travel, and green/eco-friendly destinations.Amy Bizzarri is a freelance travel writer focused on family adventure travel, vintage/retro travel, and green/ eco-friendly destinations, both in the United States and abroad. You'll most likely find her exploring her home city of Chicago by bicycle."I always pack fresh fruit. Grapes are great for munching on the road! I also spread peanut butter on sproutedgrain wraps, add sliced bananas, sprinkle on plenty of unsweetened coconut, and then roll it all up for easy protein pick-me-ups." Copyright Active Interest Media Jun 2016
This article was written by Amy Bizzarri from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: PUMP UP THE PROTEIN
description: Mixing protein powders into a post-exercisesmoothie can help you develop strength and stamina ONCE PRIMARILY a resource for high-achievement athletes, protein powders have become a category of fast food all their own. While clinical research has yet to catch up to some of the newer claims (e.g., "diabetes management," "stress reduction," etc.), it has confirmed that protein powders are preferred as post-workout potions when you want to increase strength and stamina. 1 POWER SOURCE Regular resistance training-using weights or body-weight exercises like push-ups or pull-ups-increases lean muscle mass by improving the ratio of protein synthesis to protein breakdown. Ingesting protein after resistance training enhances these gains for improved muscle growth and power. Although animal proteins deliver all the essential amino acids needed to maximize this process, most individual plant sources do not. That's why eating a variety of plant-based proteins (like pumpkin seeds, beans, avocado, quinoa, et al.) has always been a good idea-and why using a protein-supplement blend eliminates the amino-acid shortfalls of one-plant powders made from peas or rice, or eliminates too much reliance on soy for your protein needs. (Some people prefer to avoid soy's estrogenic effects.) 2 USE IT RIGHT The more you work out, the more protein works for you-i.e., protein powders won't improve your results unless you exercise regularly. However, taking in surplus amounts of protein after resistance training has limited returns: Ingesting 20 grams of protein offers a solid 89 percent of the return provided by 40 grams. The time window for muscular benefits may be as much as 24 hours, though a research overview in the journal Frontiers in Physiology calls it "optimal" to ingest protein (along with fluid and carbohydrates) immediately after exercise. 3 WATCH OUT FOR The most-studied protein powder is made from whey, which you can use if you're lacto-vegetarian. Plant-based powders may be best when mixed with fruits, vegetables, or non-dairy milk instead of water. Excessive intake of protein (more than 35 percent of your daily calories) can put a strain on kidneys. TRYALOHA ORGANIC PLANT-BASED PROTEIN$37.10/14 37g servings (18g protein); aloha.comBOB'S RED MILL PREMIUM QUALITY WHEY PROTEIN POWDER$12.99/17 20g servings (15g protein); bobsredmill.comDR. MERCOLA VEGAN PROTEIN$43.97/30 23g servings (12g protein); products.mercola.comGARDEN OF LIFE RAW PROTEIN BEYOND ORGANIC PROTEIN FORMULA$45/28 22g servings (17g protein); gardenoflife.comMANITOBA HARVEST HEMP PRO 70 PLANT BASED PROTEIN SUPPLEMENT$29.99/15 30g servings (20g protein); manitobaharvest.comNATURADE100% WHEY PROTEIN BOOSTER$27.49/17 20g servings (16g protein); naturade.comNATURE'S ANSWER PLANT HEAD PROTEIN$30/30 27g servings (15g protein); naturesanswer.comNATURE'S WAY EFA GOLD ORGANIC HEMP PROTEIN & FIBER POWDER$12/15 30g servings (llg protein); naturesway.comNOW SPORTS PEA PROTEIN$17.99/27 33g servings (24g protein); nowfoods.comSUNWARRIOR WARRIOR BLEND RAW VEGAN PROTEIN$25.47/20 25g servings (17g protein); sunwarrior.comVEGA CLEAN PROTEIN$34.99/15 35g servings (25g protein); vegasport.com Los Angeles-based journalist David Kalmansohn has a long history of covering issues of mind, body, and spirit. He is the former executive editor of Natural Health and former deputy editor of Men's Fitness. Copyright Active Interest Media Jun 2016
This article was written by David Kalmansohn from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: FRITTATA perfection
description: This Italian egg dish is so much more than just an omelet CREAMED CORN, CHARD, AND RED POTATO FRITTATA WITH JALAPEOS SERVES 8 I 30 MINUTES OR LESS Sweet corn and spicy jalapeos add Southwestern flavor to this spuds-and-greens skillet supper. 6 large eggs 1/4 cup plus 1 Tbs. half-and-half or low-fat milk 2 Tbs. olive oil, divided 1/2 cup chopped onion 1 large red potato (V* lb.), halved and sliced 1/s-inch thick 1 1/2 cups yellow corn kernels, divided 1/2 jalapeo chile, thinly sliced 1 cup torn Swiss chard leaves 1 1/2 oz. queso fresco, crumbled A cup) 1 Set oven rack in top third of oven; preheat oven to 400F. 2 Whisk eggs with 1 Tbs. half-and-half or milk, and season with salt, if desired. Set aside. 3 Heat 1 Tbs. oil in large ovenproof skillet over medium heat. Add onion, and saut 1 minute. Increase heat to medium-high, add potato, and season with salt, if desired. Cook 5 minutes, or until browned in some places and al dente, stirring occasionally. 4 Meanwhile, pulse 1 cup corn kernels and 1 tsp. jalapeo slices with remaining 1/4 cup half-and-half or milk in food processor until chunky. 5 Stir creamed corn mixture and remaining Zi cup corn kernels into potato mixture; cook 1 minute. Reduce heat to medium, and stir in chard and remaining 1 Tbs. olive oil. Drizzle eggs over vegetables to coat evenly. Cook 2 minutes, shifting vegetables so that egg coats bottom of the pan and all vegetables lie flat and are at least halfway submerged by egg. Sprinkle with remaining jalapeo slices and queso fresco. Bake frittata in oven 7 to 10 minutes. Cool 10 minutes before serving. PER SLICE 170 CAL; 8 G PROT; 10 G TOTAL FAT (3 G SAT FAT); 14 G CARB; 147 MG CHOL; 119 MG SOD; 2 G FIBER; 3 G SUGARS RED CABBAGE FRITTATA WITH LEMON AND HERBS SERVES 8 I 30 MINUTES OR LESS Parsley, toasted garlic, and lemon bring out red cabbage's sweeter side in this surprising frittata combination. 1 Tbs. olive oil 5 cloves garlic, peeled and thinly sliced 5 cups thinly sliced red cabbage 10 large eggs 1/2 cup packed Italian parsley leaves, plus more leaves for garnish 1 small lemon, very thinly sliced Fresh mint leaves, for garnish 1 Set oven rack in top third of the oven; preheat oven to 400F. 2 Heat oil in large, ovenproof skillet over medium heat. Add garlic, and cook 2 to 3 minutes, or until lightly toasted, stirring occasionally. Add cabbage, and season with salt and pepper, if desired. Cook 10 minutes, or until cabbage is lightly browned in places and tender. 3 Meanwhile, whisk eggs in large bowl, and season with salt and pepper, if desired. Set aside. 4 Stir parsley leaves into cabbage in skillet. Pour eggs into skillet, and cook frittata 2 minutes, shifting cabbage around so that egg coats bottom of pan. Arrange lemon slices over frittata. Transfer skillet to oven, and bake 12 minutes, or until eggs are fully set and begin to slightly pull away from sides of skillet. Remove from oven, and cool 2 minutes before serving. Garnish with mint and parsley leaves. PER SLICE 124 CAL; 9 G PROT; 8 G TOTAL FAT (2 G SAT FAT); 5 G CARB; 233 MG CHOL; 104 MG SOD; 1 G FIBER; 2 G SUGARS 0 SUMMER SQUASH, FINGERLING POTATO, AND RED ONION FRITTATA SERVES 8 | 30 MINUTES OR LESS Celebrate the start of summer with a frittata that makes the most of local squash and potatoes. We've called forfingerling potatoes, but any firm "boiling" or new potato variety will work. 2 Tbs. olive oil, divided 1/2 large red onion, thinly sliced (1 cup) 1/2 lb. fingerling potatoes, thinly sliced lengthwise (1V* cups) 1 1/4 cups thinly sliced zucchini (1 medium zucchini) 1 cup thinly sliced yellow squash (1 medium squash) 6 large eggs 1/2 tsp. fresh thyme leaves, plus fresh thyme sprigs for garnish 1 Set oven rack in top third of oven; preheat oven to 400F. 2 Heat 1 Tbs. oil in large, ovenproof skillet over medium heat. Add onion, and season with salt, if desired. Cook 4 minutes, or until softened, stirring occasionally. Add potatoes, and cook 6 minutes, or until browned in places. Increase heat to medium-high, and add zucchini, squash, and remaining 1 Tbs. oil. Cook 5 minutes, stirring occasionally. Reduce heat to medium. 3 Meanwhile, whisk eggs in medium bowl, and season with salt and pepper, if desired. Pour eggs into pan, and cook frittata 2 minutes, shifting vegetables around so that egg coats bottom of pan. Sprinkle with thyme leaves, then bake frittata 7 to 8 minutes, or until eggs are no longer runny and begin to slightly pull away from sides of skillet. Cool 2 minutes before serving. Garnish with thyme sprigs. PER SLICE 116 CAL; 6 G PROT; 7 G TOTAL FAT (2 G SAT FAT); 8 G CARB; 140 MG CHOL; 56 MG SOD; 1 G FIBER; 1 G SUGARS O GRAPE TOMATO AND COLLARD GREENS FRITTATA SERVES 8 | 30 MINUTES OR LESS Kale, mustard greens, and turnip greens can be used in place of the collards depending on which dark, leafy green looks freshest when you're shopping. The beauty of using grape tomatoes is that they don't leach too much liquid into the frittata batter. 10 large eggs 2 tsp. finely grated Parmesan cheese, plus more for garnish 1 tsp. prepared horseradish, plus more for dolloping 2 Tbs. olive oil 4 cloves garlic, minced (1 Tbs. plus 1 tsp.) 1 small bunch collard greens, stems removed, leaves torn into 2-inch pieces then thinly sliced into ribbons (3 cups), plus a few ribbons for garnish 1 3/4 cups halved grape tomatoes or small cherry tomatoes, plus more for garnish 1 cup shredded low-fat mozzarella cheese 1 Set oven rack in top third of oven; preheat oven to 400F. 2 Whisk together eggs, Parmesan, and horseradish in large bowl. Season with salt and pepper, if desired. Set aside. 3 Heat 1 Tbs. oil in large, ovenproof skillet over medium-high heat. Add garlic, and saut 1 minute. Add collard greens and 1 Tbs. water, and season with salt, if desired. Saut 2 minutes, or until greens are just wilted. Add 1 i4 cups tomatoes and cook 3 minutes, or until flesh begins to break down a little, stirring occasionally. Reduce heat to medium, and add remaining 1 Tbs. oil to skillet. Pour in eggs, drizzling over tomatoes and greens to coat evenly. Cook 2 minutes, shifting vegetables around so that egg coats bottom of pan and all vegetables lie flat and are at least halfway submerged by egg. 4 Sprinkle frittata with cheese, then scatter remaining Vi cup tomatoes cut-side up overtop. Bake 8 minutes, or until top is just set and cheese is melted. Increase oven heat to broil, and broil 4 to 5 minutes, or until cheese begins to brown around edges and eggs are just starting to pull away from sides of the pan. Cool 2 minutes before garnishing with Parmesan, collard ribbons, and tomatoes. PER SLICE 176 CAL; 12 G PROT; 12 G TOTAL FAT (4 G SAT FAT); 4 G CARB; 242 MG CHOL; 199 MG SOD; <1 G FIBER; 2 G SUGARS 0 GOLDEN FRITTATA WITH RED BELL PEPPER, CHICKPEAS, AND BABY SPINACH SERVES 8 30 MINUTES OR LESS Ground turmeric lends a hint of Indian flavor and a rich saffron color to this cheese-free frittata. 9 large eggs 1
tsp. ground turmeric 2 Tbs. olive oil
medium yellow onion, sliced into -inch half-moons 1 large red bell pepper, sliced (2 cups) 1
cups cooked chickpeas, or one 15-oz. can chickpeas, rinsed and drained 1 packed cup baby spinach, roughly torn 1 Set oven rack in top third of oven; preheat oven to 400F. 2 Whisk together eggs and turmeric, and season with salt and pepper, if desired. 3 Heat oil in large, ovenproof skillet over medium-high heat. Add onion, and season with salt if desired. Saut 2 minutes, or until onion is slightly softened. Add bell pepper, and cook 4 minutes, or until pepper is slightly softened. Stir in chickpeas and spinach, then pour in eggs, drizzling all over vegetables and chickpeas to coat evenly. Cook 2 minutes, shifting vegetables around so that egg coats bottom of skillet and all vegetables lie flat and are at least halfway submerged by egg. Transfer to oven. 4 Bake frittata 12 minutes, or until top and center of eggs are just set. Cool 2 minutes before serving. PER SLICE 178 CAL; 10 G PROT; 10 G TOTAL FAT (2 G SAT FAT); 12 G CARB; 209 MG CHOL; 162 MG SOD; 3 G FIBER; 3 G SUGARS Q Stacy Adimando is a writer, recipe developer, and cookbook author currently living in San Francisco. Her writing and recipes have been featured on National Public Radio and in Bon Apptit, Food & Wine, Cond Nast Traveler, Forbes, Vogue, and, of course, VT"I never (ever) drive long distances without a big bag of popcorn by my side, usually flavored with a little olive oil and some sea salt. I also try my hardest not to share." Copyright Active Interest Media Jun 2016
This article was written by Stacy Adimando from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: FAIR ISLE FOOD LOVERS
description: The duo behind Vibrant Valley Farm helps nurture local, sustainable agriculture on Oregon's Sauvie Island KARA GILBERT AND ELAINE WALKER are living, breathing, growing proof that you don't need to own a lot of land to operate a successful CSA (Community Supported Agriculture) program. Just last year, they moved Vibrant Valley Farm to four acres on Sauvie Island, north of Portland, Oregon, where they do much more than just raise vegetables. The two veterans of the international organic-farming exchange program World Wide Opportunities on Organic Farms share their love of the land through outreach programs with schools and through youth projects that include a full day of hands-on learning at their farm. Vibrant Valley Farm's CSA program (vibrantvalleyfarm.com) kicks off the first week of June. We've used veggies from a typical, early-summer share as a springboard for some simple, fresh-from-the-farm recipes you can make with your own local produce. AVGOLEMONO LINGUINE WITH CHARD RIBBONS CSA Share Item: Swiss chard SERVES 4 | 30 MINUTES OR LESS Most people know avgolemono as a lemony Greek chicken-and-rice soup that's thickened with egg yolks. In this vegetarian version, the lemon-egg yolk combo is used to make a creamy, tangy carbonara sauce for linguine and sliced Swiss chard. 3 large egg yolks
cup whole milk 1/3 cup plain 2% Greek yogurt 3
Tbs. lemon juice 2 pinches sugar 1/3 cup (1 oz.) finely grated Parmesan cheese 8 oz. linguine 1 Tbs. unsalted butter 2 10-oz. bunches Swiss chard, stems removed, cut into -inch-thick ribbons
cup chopped fresh basil, plus sprigs for garnish Lemon wedges, for garnish 1 Whisk together egg yolks, milk, yogurt, lemon juice, and sugar in medium bowl. Whisk in Parmesan. Set aside. 2 Cook linguine in large pot of boiling, salted water 8 minutes, or until just tender. Drain, and reserve 1 cup cooking water. Set aside. 3 Melt butter in same pot over medium-high heat. Add chard, and season with salt and pepper, if desired. Cook 2 to 3 minutes, or until wilted, tossing with tongs. Add pasta and V* cup cooking water to chard. Toss 30 seconds, or until chard is evenly distributed through pasta. Stir in egg-yolk mixture and basil, and cook 3 to 4 minutes, or until sauce thickens and coats pasta; toss constantly and add more reserved cooking water, if necessary. Season with salt and pepper, if desired. Serve garnished with lemon wedges and basil sprigs. PER 1-CUP SERVING 354 CAL; 16 G PROT; 11 G TOTAL FAT (5 G SAT FAT); 51 G CARB; 156 MG CHOL; 433 MG SOD; 3 G FIBER; 6 G SUGARS SPICY FENNEL-TOMATO CHUTNEY BRUSCHETTA CSA Share Items: fennel, tomatoes MAKES 12 BRUSCHETTA Want a new variation on your usual tomatobasil bruschetta fare? Try this chutney topping, which gets its heat from ginger, mustard seeds, and prepared red pepper jelly. Unlike fresh tomato bruschetta, which needs to be used immediately, this mixture will keep up to one week in the fridge. 1 medium bulb fennel, diced (1
cups); fronds reserved and chopped (2 Tbs.), plus extra for garnish 1
Tbs. vegetable oil 2 tsp. minced fresh ginger 1
tsp. fennel seeds 1
tsp. yellow mustard seeds 5 plum tomatoes, halved, seeded, and diced (2 cups) 3 Tbs. red pepper jelly 2 Tbs. red wine vinegar, divided
cup (12 Tbs.) reduced-fat ricotta cheese, or almond-milk ricotta cheese, such as Kite Hill 12 -inch-thick baguette slices, toasted 1 Steam diced fennel in steamer basket 4 to 5 minutes, or until tender. Set aside. 2 Heat oil in nonstick skillet over medium heat. Add ginger, fennel seeds, and mustard seeds, and cook 4 minutes, or until mustard seeds darken slightly and start to pop, stirring occasionally. 3 Stir in tomatoes. Cover, and cook 4 minutes. Stir in pepper jelly. Cook, uncovered, 7 minutes, or until chutney is thickened, stirring often. 4 Stir 1 Vi Tbs. vinegar, then fennel, into tomato mixture; reduce heat to medium-low and simmer 1 minute. Stir in 2 Tbs. fennel fronds, and season with salt and pepper, if desired. Transfer chutney to bowl, and cool. Stir in remaining Vi Tbs. vinegar. 5 Spread 1 Tbs. ricotta on each slice toasted bread. Top with 1 Tbs. chutney, and garnish with fennel fronds. PER BRUSCHETTA 99 CAL; 4 G PROT; 3 G TOTAL FAT (<1 G SAT FAT); 14 G CARB; 5 MG CHOL; 125 MG SOD; 1 G FIBER; 4 G SUGARS CAULIFLOWER QUESADILLAS WITH PARSLEY SALSA VERDE CSA Share Item: cauliflower SERVES 6 A cauliflower filling makes quesadillas hearty enough to be a light meal by themselves, and it lets you cut down on the cheese. You can prepare the cauliflower and salsa a day ahead, then cook them with the tortillas right before serving. Meanwhile, any leftover salsa makes for a great guacamole seasoning or sandwich spread. 4
tsp. olive oil, divided 8 large cauliflower florets, halved 2 cups chopped, seeded Anaheim chiles (two 5-oz. chiles) 3 medium tomatillos, husked, rinsed, and halved 1/3 cup chopped white onion 1/3 cup finely chopped Italian parsley leaves, divided 4 8-inch flour tortillas 1 cup coarsely grated Pepper Jack cheese
cup crumbled goat cheese 1 Brush 1 Zi tsp. oil over bottom of large nonstick skillet. Lay florets, cutside down, in skillet in single layer. Add Z* cup water; bring to boil. Cover, reduce heat to medium, and cook 5 to 6 minutes, or until cauliflower is tender. Transfer cauliflower to plate, and wipe out skillet. 2 Combine remaining 3 tsp. oil, chiles, and tomatillos in same skillet, and season with salt, if desired. Bring to a simmer over medium heat. Simmer, uncovered, 12 minutes, or until chiles are tender and beginning to char, stirring occasionally. 3 Transfer tomatillos to plate. Scrape remaining contents of skillet into blender, and blend until very smooth. Cool mixture in blender 15 minutes. 4 Add tomatillos, onion, and Z* cup parsley to blender, and pulse until chunky. Transfer to bowl, and stir in remaining parsley. Season with salt and pepper, if desired. 5 Place cauliflower florets on work surface, cut-side down. Press each with fork to about '/2-inch thickness (they may break a bit). Lay tortillas on work surface, and sprinkle one half of each with 2 Tbs. Pepper Jack Cheese. Top with florets, crowding slightly (all may not fit); add remaining Pepper Jack, 1 Tbs. salsa, and 2 Tbs. goat cheese. Fold plain half of tortilla over filling. Press to close. 6 Cook quesadillas 2 at a time in nonstick skillet 3 to 4 minutes per side. Cut quesadillas into thirds, and serve with remaining salsa. PER SERVING (2 WEDGES) 257 CAL; 10 G PROT; 13 G TOTAL FAT (6 G SAT FAT); 25 G CARB; 28 MG CHOL; 472 MG SOD, 3 G FIBER; 4 G SUGARS ROASTED BEET QUARTERS WITH MUSTARDY CRUMBLES CSA Share Item: beets SERVES 4 Once you've made the topping for these roasted beets, you'll want to find other ways to use the simple, surprising "crumbles." Be sure to roast the golden beets separately from the red beets so that the colors remain distinct. 2A Tbs. olive oil, divided 'A cup panko breadcrumbs 1A Tbs. Dijon mustard 6 small golden beets, peeled, quartered, leafy tops reserved (1 lb.) 6 small red beets, peeled, quartered, leafy tops reserved and chopped 1 Preheat oven to 375F. Coat baking sheet with cooking spray. 2 Heat 1 Tbs. oil in large skillet over medium heat. Add breadcrumbs and mustard, and cook 7 to 8 minutes, or until crumbs are deep golden, mixing, pressing, and separating with flexible spatula or back of fork. Transfer to plate. Wipe out skillet, and set aside. 3 Toss golden beets with 'A Tbs. oil in bowl, and spread on half of prepared baking sheet. Repeat with A Tbs. oil and red beets. Roast beets 35 minutes, or until tender, turning after 25 minutes if flat sides become too dark. 4 Meanwhile, heat remaining 'A Tbs. oil in reserved skillet over medium heat. Add beet greens, and saut 2 minutes, or until wilted. Season with salt and pepper, if desired. 5 Arrange roasted beets on platter, slightly mounded in center. Sprinkle with sauted greens and breadcrumb crumbles. PER SERVING (6 BEET WEDGES WITH V* CUP GREENS) 191 CAL; 4 G PROT; 9 G TOTAL FAT (1 G SAT FAT); 26 G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 353 MG SOD; 4 G FIBER; 12 G SUGARS O Copyright Active Interest Media Jun 2016
This article was written by Selma Morrow from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Healthy, homemade ENERGY BARS
description: In Weekend Whiz, we give you four simple, tasty recipes to make on the weekend (in about 2 to 3 hours) and enjoy throughout the coming week. Everything you need is right here, including a cooking timeline and a shopping list. And even if you aren't doing the cooking-on-the-weekend thing, each recipe is great all on its own. HOW IT WORKS Make a stash of protein-packed bars for grab-and-go snacks LOVE THE QUICK, satisfying convenience of energy bars when you're out and about on a busy day? Then it's time you learned just how easy it is to prepare your own. We turned to Superfood Snacks author Julie Morris for a protein-bar selection you can make with minimal equipment and fuss right at home. Prepare and package them one weekend afternoon, then savor them for weeks to come-if they last that long! COOKING TIMELINE 1 Pit the dates for the Cookie Dough Snack Bars and Zesty Green Energy Bars; chop the dried apples for the Apple-Cinnamon Crunch Bars; zest and juice the lemon for the Zesty Green Energy Bars. 2 Preheat the oven to 350F. Line two 9-inch-square pans with parchment paper, and spray one with cooking oil. 3 Prepare the Apple-Cinnamon Crunch Bars. 4 Prepare the Savory Chickpea Protein Bars. 5 Prepare the Cookie Dough Snack Bars and the Zesty Green Energy Bars. 6 Cut all recipes into bars; wrap individually in plastic or parchment paper. Store at room temperature 2 weeks or freeze in an airtight container for several months. SHOPPING LIST 2 cups Medjool dates 1 large lemon 1 Tbs. yellow miso 4 cups brown rice cereal 1 cup cooked chickpeas 1/4 cup dried goji berries 1/2 cup dried apple slices 2 cups raw walnuts Va cup raw almonds Va cup rolled oats (regular or gluten-free) 2 Tbs. coconut oil V* cup tahini paste Vi cup roasted almond butter 7 Tbs. vanilla plant-based protein powder 'I tsp. spirulina powder, or greens powder Va cup mini chocolate chips 7 Tbs. ground flaxseed meal Vi cup raw sunflower seeds Va cup hulled hemp seeds 5 Tbs. chia seeds Vi cup reduced-fat coconut shreds 6 Tbs. maple syrup 1 tsp ground cinnamon 1 Tbs. harissa powder Sea salt COOKIE DOUGH SNACK BARS MAKES 8 BARS OR SQUARES These superfood protein bars taste convincingly similar to premade oatmeal cookie dough, except that they're composed entirely of natural ingredients. 1 cup Medjool dates, pitted (16 large dates) Va cup dried goji berries Va cup roasted almond butter 4 Tbs. vanilla plant-based protein powder 1 cup raw walnuts, divided Va cup rolled oats, divided % tsp. sea salt Va cup mini chocolate chips or finely chopped dark chocolate 1 Pulse dates, goji berries, almond butter, protein powder, Vt cup walnuts, 2 Tbs. oats, and salt in food processor until doughlike and thick. Test consistency by pinching dough between two fingers-it should stick together easily. If too dry, add water 1 tsp. at a time until desired consistency is achieved. 2 Add remaining Vi cup walnuts, 2 Tbs. oats, and chocolate chips, and pulse several times to coarsely chop, while leaving plenty of texture. 3 Line cutting board with plastic wrap. Press dough into compact mound on wrap. Loosely wrap mound with plastic wrap, then use rolling pin to firmly flatten into a /j-inch-thick rectangle. Unwrap, and cut into bars or squares. PER BAR 312 CAL; 7 G PROT; 14 G TOTAL FAT (2 G SAT FAT); 46 G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 59 MG SOD; 7 G FIBER; 35 G SUGARS SAVORY CHICKPEA PROTEIN BARS MAKES 10 BARS OR SQUARES Just because it's a protein bar, doesn't mean it needs to be sweet! This mouthwatering combination of chickpeas, nuts, seeds, and spices makes low-sugar snacking both convenient and deeply satisfying. In place of the harissa powder, feel free to use another spice blend, such as a good chili powder. 3 Tbs. ground flaxseeds or flaxseed meal 2 cups crispy brown rice cereal 1 cup raw walnuts 1 cup cooked chickpeas, rinsed, drained, and patted dry Va cup tahini paste 2 Tbs. maple syrup 1 Tbs. yellow miso paste 1 Tbs. harissa powder Vi tsp. sea salt Va cup raw sunflower seeds 1 Tbs. chia seeds, optional 1 Preheat oven to 350F. Line 9-inch-square baking pan with parchment paper, allowing paper to spill over sides for easy removal. Coat lightly with cooking spray. 2 Whisk together flaxseed meal and ' cup water in small bowl. Set aside. 3 Pulse rice cereal and walnuts in food processor until partially ground. Add chickpeas, tahini paste, maple syrup, miso paste, harissa powder, salt, and flaxseed mixture, and blend until dough forms. Add sunflower and chia seeds, and pulse until just incorporated. 4 Spread dough in prepared pan, and press into a smooth, compact layer. Bake 20 to 22 minutes, or until top looks dry and edges have begun to turn golden. Transfer to wire rack to cool, then unmold and cut into bars. PER BAR 187 CAL; 6 G PROT; 13 G TOTAL FAT (1 G SAT FAT); 16 G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 211 MG SOD; 3 G FIBER; 4 G SUGARS
O ZESTY GREEN ENERGY BARS MAKES 8 BARS These bars may look green, but each soft, invigorating bite is loaded with sweet lemon flavor and packed with protein. You can use any kind of unflavored, pure green powder here, from spirulina to wheatgrass. 1 cup Medjool dates, pitted (about 16 large) Va cup raw almonds 3 Tbs. vanilla plant-based protein powder 1 tsp. spirulina powder, or greens powder 1 Tbs. lemon juice, plus more if needed 1 Tbs. grated lemon zest Vi cup hulled hemp seeds Vi cup reduced-fat coconut shreds 1 Pulse dates, almonds, protein powder, spirulina, lemon juice, and lemon zest in food processor until doughlike and thick. Test consistency by pinching dough between two fingers-it should stick together easily. If too dry, add water 1 tsp. at a time until desired consistency is achieved. 2 Add hemp seeds and coconut shreds, and pulse several times to coarsely chop, while leaving plenty of texture. 3 Line cutting board with plastic wrap. Press into a compact mound on plastic wrap. Loosely wrap with the plastic, then use rolling pin to firmly flatten into a i^-inch-thick rectangle. Unwrap, and cut into bars. PER BAR 266 CAL; 8 G PROT; 11 G TOTAL FAT (2 G SAT FAT); 38 G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 12 MG SOD; 6 G FIBER; 28 G SUGARS o APPLE-CINNAMON CRUNCH BARS MAKES 10 BARS Enjoyably crispy and loaded with spiced apple flavor, these bars satisfy hunger pangs thanks to their mineral-rich seeds. Amplify their healthy benefits further by choosing the lowest-sugar crispy brown rice cereal you can find. 2 cups crispy brown rice cereal Va cup chia seeds Va cup hulled hemp seeds Va cup raw sunflower seeds Va cup ground flaxseeds or flaxseed meal Vi cup finely chopped dried apple slices 2 Tbs. coconut oil Va cup roasted almond butter Va cup maple syrup 1 tsp. ground cinnamon Va tsp. sea salt 1 Line 9-inch-square pan with parchment paper, allowing paper to spill over sides for easy removal. 2 Mix together rice cereal, chia seeds, hemp seeds, sunflower seeds, flaxseed powder, and apple slices in medium bowl. Set mixture aside. 3 Melt coconut oil in large saucepan over medium heat. Whisk in almond butter. Stir in rice cereal mixture, and cook 1 to 2 minutes to heat through. Pour in maple syrup, cinnamon, and salt, and cook, stirring constantly, 1 minute more or until all liquid has evaporated. 4 Spread mixture into prepared pan, using back of spatula to press very firmly into place. Refrigerate 1 hour. Transfer to cutting board, and cut into bars. PER BAR 196 CAL; 5 G PROT; 12 G TOTAL FAT (3 G SAT FAT); 19 G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 79 MG SOD; 4 G FIBER; 8 G SUGARS O Copyright Active Interest Media Jun 2016
This article was written by Julie Morris from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: OUTDOOR EXTRAVAGANZA
description: VT'S SUMMER GUIDE TO VEG-FRIENDLY VENUES AROUND THE UNITED STATES THINK YOU CAN'T find top-notch veg food at a baseball game or outdoor concert? Think again. These days, open-air venues are catering to the health-conscious crowd, with meatless menu options to satisfy vegans, vegetarians, and omnivores alike. You don't need a ticket to sample these must-order eats-we tracked down recipes from stadiums and amphitheaters around the country that you can make right at home. (Just remember to take 'em outside: Nothing beats dining al fresco on a hot summer's night.) NATIONALS PARK'S VEGGIE BURGER WITH SRIRACHA AIOLI MAKES 12 BURGERS You can find this satisfying bean-andquinoa burger at several concession stands around Nationals Park. The aioli will last in the fridge up to one week. Sriracha Aioli 1 cup reduced-fat mayonnaise 1 Tbs. sriracha sauce, plus more to taste 1 Tbs. lemon juice Veggie Burgers 3 19-oz. cans cannellini beans, rinsed and drained 1 1/4 cups cooked quinoa 1 1/4 cups diced roasted red peppers 1 1/4 cups panko breadcrumbs 5/8 cup liquid eggs or 2 large eggs, lightly beaten 4 cloves garlic, minced (1 'A Tbs.) 2 Tbs. all-purpose flour 5/8 tsp. dried basil 5/8 tsp. smoked paprika 5/8 tsp. onion powder 1/2 tsp. black pepper 1/2 tsp. kosher salt 1 Tbs. olive oil 12 hamburger buns 1 To make Sriracha Aioli: Combine all ingredients in medium bowl. Set aside. 2 To make Veggie Burgers: Pulse beans in food processor until roughly chopped. 3 Combine chopped beans, quinoa, roasted red peppers, and panko breadcrumbs in large bowl. Stir in eggs, garlic, flour, basil, paprika, onion powder, black pepper, and salt. Shape mixture into 12 patties, and chill 1 hour. 4 Heat oil in nonstick skillet over medium heat, ies 6 to 8 minutes per side, or until golden brown. Serve on buns with Sriracha Aioli. PER SERVING (BURGER WITH 1 TBS. AIOLI) 361 CAL; 16 G PROT; 6 G TOTAL FAT (1 G SAT FAT); 60 G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 733 MG SOD; 13 G FIBER; 6 G SUGARS SOBA NOODLE SALAD SERVES 12 I 30 MINUTES OR LESS This colorful noodle salad, which is new at the Gorge this summer, makes a great take-along lunch. It'll stay fresh in the fridge for up to three days. 1 lb. soba noodles 2 Tbs. canola oil 1 Tbs. sesome oil 3 medium carrots, halved lengthwise and thinly sliced on bias (2 cups) 2 stalks celery, thinly sliced on bias (1 cup) 1 medium red bell pepper, cut into thin 2-inch-long strips (1 cup) 2 cloves garlic, minced (2 tsp.) 1 small English cucumber, quartered, seeded, and thinly sliced on bias (2 cups) 5 green onions, thinly sliced on bias (Va cup) 50 cilantro leaves (about 10 sprigs)
cup prepared teriyaki sauce 1 tsp. toasted sesame seeds 1 Cook noodles according to package directions. Drain, rinse under cold water, and set oside. 2 Heat canola ond sesame oils in lorge skillet over medium heat. Add carrots, celery, bell pepper, and garlic. and saut 2 minutes. Transfer to large bowl, and cool. 3 Add cucumber, green onions, and half of cilontro to carrot mixture. Gently stir in teriyaki sauce and noodles. Divide among bowls, and garnish with sesame seeds and remaining cilantro. PER 1-CUP SERVING 210 CAL; 90 PROT; 4 TOTAL FAT (<10 SAT FAT); 380 CARB; 0MG CHOL; 497MG SOD; 10 FIBER; 5 G SUGARS 0 DEER VALLEY RESORT'S GLUTEN-FREE CHOCOLATE CHIP COOKIES MAKES 10 COOKIES Almond flour and agave nectar keep this vegan and gluten-free version of the classic cookie tender and sweet. This luscious, one-bowl recipe is easy to re-create at home. 5 cups almond flour 1
tsp. salt 1 tsp. baking soda
tsp. xanthan gum 1 cup agave nectar
cup grapeseed oil 2 Tbs. vanilla extract 8 oz. vegan chocolate chips 1 Preheat oven to 325 F. Line baking sheet with parchment paper. 2 Stir together almond flour, salt, baking soda, and xanthan gum in large bowl. 3 Whisk together agave nectar, grapeseed oil, and vanilla in separate bowl. Stir agave mixture into almond flour mixture. Fold in chocolate chips. 4 Scoop 3/8 cup dough onto prepared baking sheet. Flatten cookies with bottom of drinking glass. Bake cookies 12 minutes, or until golden brown. Cool on baking sheet. PER COOKIE 664 CAL; 12 G PROT; 51 G TOTAL FAT (9 G SAT FAT); 48 G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 417 MG SOD; 10 G FIBER; 34 G SUGARS FENWAY FARMS' KALE SALAD SERVES 8 | 30 MINUTES OR LESS At Fenway Park, this crunchy, kid-friendly salad uses fresh greens grown on-site at Fenway Farms. The stadium also offers a vegan version without goat cheese. Salad
cup raw pecan halves 1 10-oz. bunch kale, stems removed, leaves cut into thin strips or chiffonade 1 generous pinch salt 1 small fennel bulb, trimmed, thinly sliced, and submerged in ice water (2 cups) 1 Granny Smith apple, cored and julienned
cup dried cranberries 4 oz. fresh goat cheese, crumbled 1 To make Salad Preheat oven to 350 F. Spread pecans on baking sheet, and toast 7 minutes, or until light brown and fragrant, stirring frequently. Cool, then roughly chop. 2 To make Dressing Combine maple syrup, lemon juice, mustard, shallot, and thyme in small bowl. Slowly whisk In oil. Season with salt and pepper, if desired. 3 Place kale in medium bowl, and massage with salt. Drain fennel, and add to kale. Stir in apple, cranberries, goat cheese, and toasted pecans. Toss with Dressing. PER 1-CUP SERVING 233 CAL; 4 G PROT; 16 G TOTAL FAT (4 G SAT FAT); 21 G CARB; 7 MG CHOL; 155 MG SOD; 3 G FIBER; IS G SUGARS Dressing
cup pure maple syrup 2 Tbs. lemon juice 1 Tbs. Dijon mustard 1 small shallot, chopped (1 Tbs.) 2 tsp. chopped fresh thyme 6 Tbs. olive oil Copyright Active Interest Media Jun 2016
This article was written by Tami Fertig from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: MOST LIKED RECIPE
description: Beet Linguine with Cashew Ricotta This vibrant, vegan Beet Linguine with Cashew Ricotta received more than 1,500 combined likes and comments on Facebook. GET THE RECIPE vegetariantimes.com/ recipe/beetlinguine-with-cashew-ricotta/ JOIN OUR FACEBOOK COMMUNITY facebook.com/vegetariantimesmag Copyright Active Interest Media Jun 2016
This article was written by Anonymous from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: EAT TO BEAT ARTHRITIS
description: A vegetarian diet can play a role in relieving painful symptoms WHETHER YOU HAVE osteoarthritis (OA) or rheumatoid arthritis (RA), the pain, swelling, and joint damage you experience are caused by the same thing: inflammation. In RA, an autoimmune illness, the inflammation is systemic, which means it can affect your entire body. A plant-based, anti-inflammatory diet can help, says Don Colbert, MD, author of Let Food Be Your Medicine: Dietary Changes Proven to Prevent or Reverse Disease (Worthy Publishing, 2015). Here are two important ways in which a vegetarian or vegan diet can relieve your arthritis symptoms, plus one in which it lowers your risk for heart disease if you already have RA. It reduces inflammation and pain "A vegetarian or vegan diet lessens inflammation and arthritis symptoms, while the standard Western diet aggravates them," says rheumatologist Nathan Wei, MD, director of the Arthritis Treatment Center, in Frederick, MD. The theory is that diets heavy in meat, especially red meat, increase inflammation, while meat-free diets decrease the production of proteins like cytokines that cause or aggravate it. "Fruits and vegetables are packed with a type of antioxidant that is especially helpful," Wei says. Research also shows omega-3 fatty acids (found in flax seeds and walnuts), olive oil, nuts, seeds, and beans to be beneficial. One caveat: "For about 50 percent of osteoarthritis patients, vegetables in the nightshade family aggravate their symptoms," Colbert says. "These include tomatoes, potatoes, paprika, peppers, and eggplant." He also advises steering clear of oils that contain polyunsaturated omega-6 fatty acids, such as corn, cottonseed, safflower, and sunflower oils. It can lighten the load on your joints Obesity is a risk factor for both OA and RA, the Arthritis Foundation reports. Maintaining a healthy weight can help you avoid developing arthritis and improve your symptoms if you already have it. "Among the advantages of a vegetarian or vegan diet for people with arthritis is weight loss," Wei says. Losing weight is important from two perspectives. The first is mechanical: More weight creates more pressure on the joints. "With osteoarthritis, or 'wear-and-tear' arthritis, we often see pain and damage in the weight-bearing joints, such as the legs, hips, and back, as well as the fingers," Colbert says. Fat cells produce leptins-proteins that aggravate inflammation. "If you're carrying around extra weight, you're carrying around an inflammationcreating machine," Wei says. It can lower your risk for RA-linked heart disease "People with RA are at greater risk for atherosclerosis [clogged arteries] because they suffer from chronic inflammation," Wei says. In fact, people with RA have up to twice the risk of heart disease and heart failure as the general population, a 2013 Mayo Clinic study found. "A plantbased diet can reduce that risk," he adds. Research from 2011 found that vegetarians also tend to have lower blood pressure and cholesterol levels. All these factors are linked to better heart health. A possible role in prevention? A typical Western diet, high in red and processed meats, was also shown to increase women's risk for developing RA, the Harvard Medical School's Nurses' Health Study II found. More research is needed to determine whether a meat-free diet can actually help prevent arthritis, but the diet's benefits for people who have the disease are clear. Says Wei, "If you already have arthritis, going vegetarian is a good decision. But even if you don't, it couldn't hurt, because it's generally a healthier diet." "If you already have arthritis, going vegetarian is a good decision. But even if you don't, it couldn't hurt because it's generally a healthier diet." FOODS THAT HELPPacked with helpful antioxidants, these foods may decrease inflammation:* Beans* Fruits* Nuts* Olive oil* Seeds* VegetablesFOODS TO AVOIDThese foods may increase inflammation and therefore symptoms:* Corn Oil* Cottonseed oil* Eggplant* Meat* Paprika* Peppers* Potatoes* Safflower oil* Sunflower oil* TomatoesPEOPLE WITH RA HAVE 2XTHE RISK OF HEART DISEASE AND HEART FAILURE AS THE GENERAL POPULATION Sharon Cohen is a Los Angeles-based writer and editor. Copyright Active Interest Media Jun 2016
This article was written by Sharon Cohen from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: TELL VT
description: What are your must-have foods for road trips? Dried stuff. My dehydrator is maxed out with fruit leathers, kale chips, apple rings, and zucchini chips for a week before I leave. -Christina Smith Fresh fruit, nuts, and a container of lightly steamed green vegetables-I always crave these the most when I can't get them easily. -Gaye Denman Almonds. -Nanci Lawson Celery sticks, Brazil nuts, apples, bananas, and water with Emergen-C packets. -Michelle DeGondea Amato When I was a kid, my mom would always pack Fig Newtons. Loved them! -Becky Manternach Schuett Fruits and nuts. -Alioana Nealcos Seedless grapes. -Teri Miller Trail mix, apples, and falafel! -Marilyn Shane Tell us what you're cookIng at facebook.com/ vegetariantimesmag *Responses are edited for clarity JOIN US ONLINE FACEBOOK.CQH/VEGETARIANTIMESIj46 TWITTER @VEGTIMES PINTEREST.COM/VEGTIMES INATAGRAM.COM/VEGETARIANTIMESMAG Copyright Active Interest Media Jun 2016
This article was written by Anonymous from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Have Your Garden and Eat It Too
description: Adding colorful vegetable plants to your flowerbeds allows you to have a garden and eat it, too
Do you have limited garden space, yet yearn to grow both radishes and roses? Time to try foodscaping, the artful combination of cultivating vegetables, fruits, and ornamental plants. Also called edible landscaping, this practice offers the best of all worlds for small or minimally sunny properties, or where a traditional vegetable garden would look out of place--say, in a front yard.
Many edibles look as good as they taste--think kale, Swiss chard, bronze fennel, and peppers. And annual vegetables aren't the only ones to win the beauty contest: Perennials like asparagus and fruits like blueberries, pears, and rhubarb offer beauty and flavor. Bonus: This diversity attracts pollinators and nurtures wildlife.
"Given a choice between an edible ornamental and a non-edible ornamental, I design for the edible," says Patty Laughlin, owner of Lorax Landscaping in Epping, New Hampshire. "When I introduce clients to the idea of 'browsing' their landscape, they get a whole new perspective of what their garden can be."
A few guidelines: Grow edibles next to ornamental plants with the same cultural needs. As a general rule, most vegetables and fruits need rich, well-drained soil, full sun, and one inch of water per week. Use organic gardening practices, such as adding compost, mulching, and fertilizing with seaweed-based plant-food. Don't use pesticides or herbicides. Transplant seasonally appropriate vegetables into your garden during the gaps between harvests: E.g., plant kale after you've plucked the lettuce or Swiss chard.
FIVE EDIBLE BEAUTIES FOR BEGINNERS
BLUEBERRIES
VACCIN I UM
"When it comes to adding edibles to a landscape, I call blueberries the gateway fruit," says Laughlin, because the berries are tasty and the plants easy to grow. Highbush blueberries, which grow to 12 feet, are good for hedging. At 2 feet tall, lowbush, or wild, blueberries, add interest to a flowerbed. Plant more than one variety to improve yields. Blueberries need the same acidic soil as rhododendrons and azaleas.
'BRIGHT LIGHTS' SWISS CHARD
BETA VULGARIS SUBSP. VULGARIS
When you plant Swiss chard in a flowerbed, the veggie's big, glossy green leaves and brilliant-red, -pink, and -orange stalks give the garden a tropical feel. This plant handles both cool and hot weather, and it likes soil that's rich and moist. Sweet alyssum and cosmos make colorful companions. Swiss chard grows to 16 inches tall by 8 inches wide.
CHERRY TOMATOES
LYCOPERSICON ESCULENTUM VAR. CERASIFORME
Super-easy, fast-growing cherry tomatoes will keep the garden colorful while producing fruits as fast as you can eat them. There are red, yellow, orange, and "black"--actually deep purple varieties, with names like 'Red Robin,' 'Sungold,' 'Gold Nugget,' and 'Black Cherry.' Tuck a couple in a border to scramble around black-eyed Susans or coneflowers.
ROSEMARY
ROSMARINUS OFFICINALIS
This heat-loving perennial herb does best in a warm, dry climate. Its fragrant, needle-like leaves and intense blue flowers make it a natural low hedge or border. The cultivar Arp grows upright and can be shaped into a small tree; Prostratus can spill prettily over a wall or serve as groundcover. Rosemary isn't hardy in Zones 5 and colder, but plants can be brought indoors and overwintered in front of your sunniest window.
SCARLET RUNNER BEANS
PHASEOLUS COCCINEUS
Scarlet runner bean is an annual vine, with bright-red blooms that turn into 8-inch long pods. You can eat the flowers-and the cooked pods when young (before the beans appear)- or you can harvest the dry pods for their pink-purple beans. Train scarlet runner bean on an arbor or trellis. The more you pick, the more flowers you get, which makes hummingbirds and bees happy, too.
Therese Ciesinski has written for Garden Design, This Old House, and Coastal Home magazines; Houzz .com; and the Philadelphia Inquirer. She was an editor at Organic Gardening magazine, and lives and gardens in Southeastern Pennsylvania.
Copyright Active Interest Media Jun 2016
This article was written by Therese Ciesinski from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: AN EDIBLE LANDSCAPE
description: Adding colorful vegetable plants to your flowerbeds allows you to have a garden and eat it, too DO YOU HAVE limited garden space, yet yearn to grow both radishes and roses? Time to try foodscaping, the artful combination of cultivating vegetables, fruits, and ornamental plants. Also called edible landscaping, this practice offers the best of all worlds for small or minimally sunny properties, or where a traditional vegetable garden would look out of place-say, in a front yard. Many edibles look as good as they taste-think kale, Swiss chard, bronze fennel, and peppers. And annual vegetables aren't the only ones to win the beauty contest: Perennials like asparagus and fruits like blueberries, pears, and rhubarb offer beauty and flavor. Bonus: This diversity attracts pollinators and nurtures wildlife. "Given a choice between an edible ornamental and a non-edible ornamental, I design for the edible," says Patty Laughlin, owner of Lorax Landscaping in Epping, New Hampshire. "When I introduce clients to the idea of'browsing' their landscape, they get a whole new perspective of what their garden can be." A few guidelines: Grow edibles next to ornamental plants with the same cultural needs. As a general rule, most vegetables and fruits need rich, welldrained soil, full sun, and one inch of water per week. Use organic gardening practices, such as adding compost, mulching, and fertilizing with seaweedbased plant-food. Don't use pesticides or herbicides. Transplant seasonally appropriate vegetables into your garden during the gaps between harvests: E.g., plant kale after you've plucked the lettuce or Swiss chard. FIVE EDIBLE BEAUTIES FOR BEGINNERSBLUEBERRIESVACCIN I UM"When it comes to adding edibles to a landscape, I call blueberries the gateway fruit," says Laughlin, because the berries are tasty and the plants easy to grow. Highbush blueberries, which grow to 12 feet, are good for hedging. At 2 feet tall, lowbush, or wild, blueberries, add interest to a flowerbed. Plant more than one variety to improve yields. Blueberries need the same acidic soil as rhododendrons and azaleas.'BRIGHT LIGHTS' SWISS CHARDBETA VULGARIS SUBSP. VULGARISWhen you plant Swiss chard in a flowerbed, the veggie's big, glossy green leaves and brilliant-red, -pink, and -orange stalks give the garden a tropical feel. This plant handles both cool and hot weather, and it likes soil that's rich and moist. Sweet alyssum and cosmos make colorful companions. Swiss chard grows to 16 inches tall by 8 inches wide.CHERRY TOMATOESLYCOPERSICON ESCULENTUM VAR. CERASIFORMESuper-easy, fastgrowing cherry tomatoes will keep the garden colorful while producing fruits as fast as you can eat them. There are red, yellow, orange, and "black"-actually deep purplevarieties, with names like 'Red Robin,' 'Sungold,' 'Gold Nugget,' and 'Black Cherry.'Tuck a couple in a border to scramble around black-eyed Susans or coneflowers.ROSEMARYROSMARINUS OFFICINALISThis heat-loving perennial herb does best in a warm, dry climate. Its fragrant, needlelike leaves and intenseblue flowers make it a natural low hedge or border. The cultivar Arp grows upright and can be shaped into a small tree; Prostratus can spill prettily over a wall or serve as groundcover. Rosemary isn't hardy in Zones 5 and colder, but plants can be brought indoors and overwintered in front of your sunniest window.SCARLET RUNNER BEANSPHASEOLUS COCCINEUSScarlet runner bean is an annual vine, with bright-red blooms that turn into 8-inchlong pods. You can eat the flowers-and the cooked pods when young (before the beans appear)- or you can harvest the dry pods for their pink-purple beans. Train scarlet runner bean on an arbor or trellis. The more you pick, the more flowers you get, which makes hummingbirds and bees happy, too. Therese Ciesinski has written for Garden Design, This Old House, and Coastal Home magazines; Houzz .com; and the Philadelphia Inquirer. She was an editor at Organic Gardening magazine, and lives and gardens in Southeastern Pennsylvania. Copyright Active Interest Media Jun 2016
This article was written by Therese Ciesinski from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: These Vacant Lots In Detroit Are Turning Into An Eco-Village
description: When the city of Highland Park, Michigana small city within Detroitcould no longer afford most basic services in 2011, it tore streetlights out of neighborhoods. On one dark block, Shamayim "Shu" Harris realized that neighbors could solve the problem themselves: working with the nonprofit Soulardarity, the community banded together to buy their own solar streetlights that run virtually cost-free.
Now, Harris is leading an even bigger push to turn most of her entire block into her vision of an eco-village. On former blighted, vacant lots, a greenhouse will let hungry residents grow their own food; an abandoned gas station will turn into a caf serving health food. Inside a converted shipping container, a marketplace will sell products from women-owned businesses. A healing center will teach yoga and meditation. An abandoned house will turn into a "homework house," where children will get meals and tutoring after school. Later, new buildings will add affordable housing.
Everything will run, as much as possible, off the grid, with features such as rainwater catchment and retention. "It's cleaner, it's better for us, it helps us to be more self-sufficient," says Harris.
She wants her neighborhood to look like others in the city that managed to avoid blight. "We want to give the people what they deserve to look at," she says, "the services they deserve to have."
Harris began revitalizing the block nine years ago, when her two-year-old son was killed by a hit-and-run driver. In his memory, she built a park for neighborhood children on the vacant lots next to her home.
"I started taking care of all the other lots on the block," she says. "Then noticing all the things that were breaking down in our city, the services that were limited. Things that were closing up. Then decided hey, us as a people, you know, the community can put it back together."
The new project will take over another 14 properties, with the first phase of construction completed by September, continuing over the next four years.
Harris thinks the same thing could happen throughout Detroit and in other cities struggling with blight. When she started, she says, there was almost nothing left on her block. "Houses was tore down, it was just clay, dirt, nothing, glass, bathtubs," she says. "Now it's fresh grass, flowers, benches, things like that. So it took a minute. But I do think people will get turned on and they'll see how easy it is to actually doto buy the land around you and have a plan."
She also hopes that the project helps people see Highland Park differently. "A lot of times, we get a bad rap. A lot of times, [the news doesn't] show the wonderful things, they'll show people getting killed, robbed, all of that stuff to the world. I want them to take a look at this. Come see this. Come see what we're doing in our citya beautiful thing."
The project is crowdfunding on Kickstarter.
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 9 Next-Level Nut Butters to Make at Home
description: If the only choice of nut butters you've ever made was between smooth or crunchy, you're missing out. Today, grocery store shelves are stocked with options featuring all sorts of nuts (and seeds!) melded with exotic flavor combos from chili flakes to maple syrup.
But heres a little secret that nut butter manufacturers dont want you to know: In as little as 15 minutes, you can turn a few handfuls of nuts into creamy, smooth, stick-to-the-roof-of-your-mouth goodness in your own kitchenno industrial machines required. Plus you can customize a nut butter every which way to create flavors that youll never discover in a jar of Jif.
Ready to whip up your own batch? Follow our method and choose from the potential flavor combinations below for ridiculously delicious results every time.Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 325 degrees. Spread 2 cups raw, unsalted nuts or seeds on a baking sheet. Roast until golden and fragrant, about 10 minutes, stirring once or twice. (Watch closely as nuts and seeds can go from perfectly toasted to bitterly burnt in a flash.)
2. Transfer nuts or seeds to a food processor or high-powered blender while still warm. Process until finely ground and butter begins to form, about 3 to 4 minutes, scraping down the sides as needed.
3. Add 1/2 teaspoon salt and 1 to 2 tablespoons oil. (Use a neutral flavored oil, such as canola or grapeseed.*) Continue to blend until smooth and creamy, scraping down the sides as needed. The time will vary depending on the power of your machine and the types of nuts or seeds used, from 1 to 5 minutes. Add additional oil if needed to create a smooth texture.
4. Blend in any desired flavorings. Taste and adjust seasoning as desired. For a crunchier spread, pulse or stir in some chopped nuts at the end of blending.
*See note belowA Few Notes:
The spread will last several days at room temperature (the advantage is easier spreading) or in the refrigerator for up to two months.
Toasting your nuts or seeds before blending will guarantee that the spread is even more tasty. Grinding the nuts while still warm from the oven helps them to release more oils for easier grinding and a creamier mixture.
*Blending in a touch of oil helps the nuts or seeds break down into a creamier spread. Use neutral-flavored oil, such as canola or grapeseed, or the same oil as the nuts or seeds being turned into butter. (If making almond butter, blend in almond oil.) Coconut oil gives butters great texture but will likely harden the spread if refrigerated, and it may require reprocessing.
Use a powerful food processor, such as a Cuisinart, or a blender like a Vitamix, since their motors wont burn out during processing. If using a blender, be sure to follow the manufacturers instructions for making nut butters. Halting the machine every minute or so is a good idea, as it gives the motor a chance to cool slightly.
Skins can infuse butters with a bitter flavor. For almonds, look for blanched almonds that are already skinned. The skins of hazelnuts can be rubbed off with a clean dish towel after roasting.
If adding a touch of sweetness, go with honey. It emulsifies nut butters better than other liquid sweeteners, like agave or maple syrup.
This article was written by Matthew Kadey R.D. from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Robot Points Out Your Mistakes, Like The World's Most Annoying Roommate
description: Imagine a robot that follows you around, watching as you leave the milk out on the counter, or forget to turn off the TV, or leave the gas stove burning, then reminding you to fix it. If it sounds like the world's most controlling roommate, then yes it is. But if you are absent-minded, and you live alone (apart from hassle-bot of course), then it could save your life.
The robot is called the Watch-Bot, and it consists of a Microsoft Kinect on a tripod, motors so it can move its head, a laptop for a brain, and a laser pointer. The Kinect is a gaming accessory that used 3-D cameras to watch you and track you, so you can control a game with your body movements. In the case of the Watch-Bot, the Kinect is its eyes into your filthy, chaotic world, and the laser pointer is used to point out your mistakes, like a terse, passive-aggressive parent.
Watch-Bot was presented at last week's ICRA 2016 conference on robotics and automation, in Stockholm, and is detailed in a new paper from the teams at Cornell and Stanford.
The average human adult, say the researchers, forgets three important facts, chores, or events every day, and the Watch-Bot is there to make sure that stops. Remarkably, it can teach itself what you have forgotten, with no training input from anyone. The Watch-Bot can learn by watching videos, or by watching you, and in future it may even be able to head over to YouTube and train itself there, although that sounds like it could be robot suicide.
If our robot sees a person fetch a milk from the fridge, pour the milk, and leave without putting the milk back to the fridge, it would first detect the forgotten action and the related object (the milk), given the input RGB-D frames and human skeletons from the Kinect; then map the object from the Kinect's view to the camera's view; finally pan/tilt the camera until its mounted laser pointer pointing to the milk.
The Watch-Bot's brain takes the 3-D scenes from the Kinect and uses them to work out what's going on in the scene, and to infer the human's intentions. For example, the task "make tea" requires the actions "fill kettle" and "boil kettle."
To help it to infer intent, Watch-Bot is trained to recognize human gestures, and to isolate the objects the human interacts with in a scene. And because it can teach itself, the robot actually becomes more effective over time. Using this, the robot can learn, unsupervised, what is intended and what has been forgotten, just by watching for a while. It's almost exactly the way you or I might do it, watching to see how things are done, before switching over to nagging people when they get it wrong.
While it would be tempting to deploy the Watch-Bot in the office kitchen to make sure that your coworkers don't leave their unwashed coffee cups in the sink, it also has potential uses in the world of health care, especially helping, say, Alzheimer's sufferers from forgetting dangerous tasks, such as leaving outside doors open or a pot on the stove.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Can This Airbnb For Seniors Help Keep The Elderly Connected?
description: If you thought the sharing economy was all about young people, it may be time to revise that notion. Airbnb recently said seniors are its fastest-growing demographic (as well as its best-reviewed hosts). And studies show that people 55 and over are more likely to participate on sharing platforms than the population as a whole.
The Freebird Club, developed in Ireland, is expressly for older people. An Airbnb-like site, it aims to connect seniors with spare rooms with seniors looking to travel. But there are important differences with Airbnb, says the site's creator Peter Mangan. For one, hosts always stay and receive their gueststhe idea is to promote conversation and social connections. For another, the Freebird Club is members only. You need to pay a small fee to join, and it's only for people 50 and over.
(Your browser doesn't support iframe)"There are two issues we're trying to address," Mangan says. "One is loneliness and isolation in the elderly population. A lot of people are finding themselves quite isolated particularly in the larger cities. The other is that a lot of people are quite asset-richmaybe they have a mortgage-free housebut they're reliant on a [fixed income]. This is a way to monetize their assets."
Mangan, an administrator at the University of Dublin, first came up with the idea when his father hosted guests via Airbnb and felt invigorated by the experience. He's since won the European Commission's Social Innovation Competition, which came with a check of about $55,000, and moved into offices in central Dublin. Mangan plans to launch fully this June, having piloted the site in County Kerry, in Ireland, and in London.
"We really want to provide something that's fun and inspiring for older people. It provides a whole new way of traveling for them. Often they have the time, but nobody to do it with and they won't go alone. That's why it's a club and you can stay with other members," Mangan says.
"We really want to provide something that's fun and inspiring for older people. It provides a whole new way of traveling for them."
The for-profit startup will focus initially on Ireland and the U.K., but Mangan sees potential in the Irish diaspora in the U.S. as well. He's promoting the site through senior organizations and paying a lot of attention, he says, to "security and trust issues" as these have potential to turn away seniors even more quickly than other groups.
With people living longer and more isolated lives, some are predicting an "epidemic of loneliness" among seniors. Studies show that social connection is important for staying healthy (and that isolation may lead to higher rates of disease). Mangan hopes he can help reverse a trend, by linking up like-minded people and starting new relationships that wouldn't otherwise have existed.
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: How to Stop Feeling Desperate When You're Single
description: Q: I just turned 30 and I'm single, while all of my friends are married, engaged, or seriously dating someone. I'm confident, happy, and have a great social life, but I'm starting to worry there's not anyone out there for me. How do I continue to date in hopes of finding a serious relationshipwithout seeming desperate?
A: Everywhere you look, from movies to magazines, were told that being in a relationship equals being happy. The good news? Thats 100 percent not true.
Youve probably heard it before, but the only way to put your best self out there is to first get comfortable with yourselfand your alone time.
Instead of focusing on what you dont have, think about what is great about you and your life now. Being single has tons of perkshello, taking spontaneous road trips and being the boss of your own life. Whenever youre feeling sad or desperate, remember those good points. It will take some practice, but almost any negative thought about being single can be switched to a good one.
Whats more: Based on my research, I've discovered that finding love is not about wearing the right outfit, going to the right restaurant for a first date, or waiting three days after that date to text. Its about looking inside you and asking yourself two important questions.
2 Questions to Ask Yourself1. What parts of life are most important to me?
Think about these six areas of your life: money, family, faith, work, health, and lifestyle. How do you view each core area? Where do your values, priorities, and goals lie? Are you happy with your priorities, or do you want any of them to change?
Then ask yourself which two areas stand out the most in terms of how you want to live your life in the future. Remember that there are no right or wrong answers or opinions.
Once youve thought about these six areas of life, youll have a better understanding of what you are all about, which will also help you to identify compatibilities in a potential partner. You might be physically attracted to someone who looks nothing like what you thought was your type, but studies show that partners who share beliefs about these values are more likely to stay together over the long haul.
A couple can share all-important life values even when they have different interests and hobbies, and even when they are of two different races, religions, or have very dissimilar social backgrounds.
2. What do I want and/or need in a partner?
Do you know what the right person would look like if you met that person today? Most people dont take the time to think about what they want in a romantic relationship (or in a partner). But in order to open yourself up to a relationship and not feel desperate, you need to decide what exactly you need or want in a relationship.
Defining the type of person you want to be with is a little like making a shopping list before you head out to the grocery store. It streamlines the process, keeps you from making random or desperate choices, and prevents you from wasting time (the last thing you want at the storeor in dating).
Defining the type of person you want to be with is a little like making a shopping list before you head out to the grocery store.
Grab a piece of paper and divide it into two columns. In the left one, list five must-have qualities that you need in a partner. Think: Does the persons age or physical appearance matter? What about personality traitswould you like someone whos sensitive, inquisitive, easygoing, adventurous, or smart?
In the right column, list five deal breakers. Maybe its smoking cigarettes, being in financial debt, having terrible manners, or generally being closed-minded. These are the five things that, as hard as you try, you just cant tolerate or allow in a partner.
When you meet new people, this list will become an invaluable tool. It will remind you to make sure that your needs and desires are being met. Instead of worrying about what your date thinks about you, as you might have done before, your list will help you to determine if that person is going to make you happy.
In the end, by knowing your self and what is important to youin life and in a partneryoull feel far less desperate and anxious. When you go out with a positive attitude, you will find the right person for youI promise they're out there.
Dr. Terri Orbuch (a.k.a. The Love Doctor) is a professor, therapist, research scientist, and author of five best-selling books, including Finding Love Again: 6 Simple Steps to a New and Happy Relationship. Learn more about her at DrTerriTheLoveDoctor.com.
This article was written by Dr. Terri Orbuch from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This New Neighborhood Will Grow Its Own Food, Power Itself, And Handle Its Own Waste
description: If you live inside one of the houses in a new neighborhood being built in an Amsterdam suburb, your dining room might be next to an indoor vegetable garden. Outside, you'll have another seasonal garden. And down the street, almost everything you eat will be grown in high-tech vertical farms.
The neighborhood will be the first ReGen Village, a new type of community designed to be fully self-sufficient, growing its own food, making its own energy, and handling its own waste in a closed loop.
Any household waste that can be composted will feed livestock or soldier flies. The soldier flies will feed fish, and fish waste will fertilize an aquaculture system that produces fruit and vegetables for the homes. Seasonal gardens will be fertilized by waste from the livestock.
By using the most advanced methods for growing fooda combination of aeroponics, aquaponics, permaculture, food forests, and high-yield organic farmingthe neighborhood will grow many times more food than a traditional farm of the same size, with fewer resources. Aquaponics, for example, can produce 10 times as much produce on the same amount of land, with 90% less water.
"We anticipate literally tons of abundant organic food every yearfrom vegetables, fruit, nuts, legumes, fish, eggs, chicken, small animal dairy and proteinthat can continually grow and yield in the vertical garden systems all year long as supplement to the seasonal gardens and farming adjacent," says James Ehrlich, CEO of ReGen Villages, the California-based developer, which will also manage the neighborhood-slash-farm. The company partnered with Effekt, a Danish architecture firm, on the design.
The community will also produce its own energy, using a mixture of geothermal, solar, solar thermal, wind, and biomass. "We're looking at some very interesting technologies for small-footprint biomass that can take surrounding farm waste and turn that into a consistent energy source in a way that can power these communities in northern Europe even in the dead of winter," Ehrlich says. A smart grid will distribute power efficiently, sending it to a carport to charge shared electric cars as needed.
A biogas plant will turn any non-compostable household waste into power and water. A water storage system will collect rainwater and graywater and redistribute it to seasonal gardens and the aquaponic system.
It's the first of a network of similar communities that ReGen plans to build around the world.
"We're really looking at a global scale," he says. "We are redefining residential real-estate development by creating these regenerative neighborhoods, looking at first these greenfield pieces of farmland where we can produce more organic food, more clean water, more clean energy, and mitigate more waste than if we just left that land to grow organic food or do permaculture there."
The first 100-home village is on the outskirts of Almere, a quickly growing town 20 minutes by train from Amsterdam. Inside Almere, the company is also building a scaled-down version with 35 condo units. The company also has more projects planned in Sweden, Norway, Denmark, and Germany, but plans to expand everywhere.
"We're really looking at starting off as the Tesla of eco-villages," Ehrlich says. "That's the idea. So we're coming out as a little bit higher-end for Northern Europe." Next, the company wants to adapt the system for arid climates such as the Middle East.
"We tackle the first two hardest climate areas," he says. "Then from there we have global scalerural India, sub-Saharan Africa, where we know that the population is going to increase and also be moving to the middle class. If everybody in India and Africa wants the same kind of suburbs that we've been building so far, the planet's not going to make it."
Ehrlich, who also works as an entrepreneur-in-residence at Stanford University and as a senior technologist there, was inspired by a 2013 UN report that argued for the creation of self-sufficient communities.
In Almere, the village is likely to grow about half of the food that the community eatsit won't grow coffee or bananas, for example. It will also feed energy back to the local grid. But in some locations, the company believes that the neighborhood could be fully self-sufficient.
The community in Almere will break ground this summer and be completed in 2017.
All Images: Effekt
related video: How Biolite's camping stove changed lives in the developing world(Your browser doesn't support iframe)
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The Best and Worst Things to Say to a Runner During a Race
description: Go, random stranger!
If Donald Trump can run, so can you!
Worst parade ever.
If youve run a race recently, you might recognize these phrases from the signs held by spectators along the course. Crowd support is an incredible phenomenon, and as a longtime runner, Im forever grateful to anyone who comes out and stands on the side of the road, rain or shine, for hours, just to watch me run by for 10 seconds.
But as much as I appreciate giving a swift high five to a, Touch here for power sign (it really does make me feel like Ive just had a gulp of Space Jams secret stuff!), I get equally as frustrated with some spectators and their not-so-helpful cheers. For example, the guy who yelled, Youre almost there! to me at mile 11 of the 26.2-mile Boston Marathon this year made me want to fling myself off the side of the road.
I was fuming: Was this guy seriously watching this race without any idea how long a marathon is?! Did he not understand how far I still had to run?! My mood shifted from concentrating on the course before me (did you know marathons hurt?) to being furious with a stranger. It was depleting, and in a way, demeaningthough I know that wasnt his intention.
The fact of the matter is: Sometimes fans think theyre being helpful, but their motivating cheers or race signs are actually mentally draining and deflating for runners. To help fans be the best support crew they can be, I polled my friends in The Most Informal Running Club Ever, NYC to see what they most enjoy hearing or seeing during a race.
Here are the best (and worst) things to say or do on the sidelines.
Ways to Be Helpful
Make funny signs.
I laugh at signs that say, Dont trust a fart.
Christopher Ho, marathoner
During the Boston Marathon, I laughed out loud, pointed, and gave a thumbs up to the guy holding a sign that said, If Jeb! can make it through 2015, then you can make it through this race.
Michele Richinick, two-time marathoner
"I love signs that say, You're faster than [fill in mass transit of choice]like, Youre faster than the G train (New York), or the metro (Washington, DC), or the T (Boston).
Jasmin Roman, marathoner
Customize your cheers.
One of my favorite things is hearing a personalized cheer, like when a spectator yells out my name, bib number, or a detail of my clothing. For example, Looking strong, Chris/Bib no. 3457/blue shirt!
Ho
For my first marathon, I put my name on my jersey in big letters as I had heard it would be helpful, but I didnt expect much. I was surprised by how incredibly motivating it was to hear people shout my name, make eye contact, and encourage me to keep going. For a fleeting moment, you feel like there is a personal connection, and this stranger is now part of your cheer squad.
Victor Tello, marathoner and triathlete
Utilize cute animals.
During the Philadelphia half-marathon, a spectator was holding huge cutouts of a dog and a cat. Cute pets will put a smile on anyone's face!
Laura Van Lenten, half-marathoner and triathlete
Make it a group effort.
I love to laugh in a race. During one race I saw three friends lined up with sequential signs reading, "Go Harder!" then " Go Faster!" and then, "That's What She Said!"
Joshua Young, Ironman finisher
While running the New York City Marathon, I saw a girl holding a sign that said, Free pugs at the finish! and the guy next to her had a sign that said, She's lying. I got a big kick out of that.
Erica, marathoner
Remind runners about form.
I like hearing people cheer about form, like Take deep breaths, Relax your shoulders, or Drive your knees.
Ho
Go for an interactive element.
I try to high five and touch all the Touch here for power signs. I love those people!
Katie Topalian, marathoner and TMIRCE member
I try to never turn down a free high five from a spectator. Sometimes its that boost you need to reinvigorate your run.
Erin Kelly, marathoner and Greatist writer
Show your support.
I love people who cheer you on at the top of a hill and congratulate you when you've made it [to the top]. It's the little goals that help move the race along.
Lindsay Anne Michaels, runner
Ways to Be Discouraging (and, uh, Annoying)
Remind runners how much farther they have to go.
I do not like hearing about distance at almost any point in the race because I either know already or would like to be pleasantly surprised [at the next mile marker]."
Ho
In addition to the You're almost there cheer, theres the reminder of Only ___ miles to go! which is obviously just as bad and makes me want to punch whoever says it in the throat but I don't have the energy for that!
Topalian
Have no clue what's going on.
During the Scotland 10K last year, one volunteer shouted, Good job! just as I crossed the starting line.
Blazer, half-marathoner
Let your motivational cheers come off as mean.
There's an older, portly fellow in the park who yells at my workout group in variants of, Quit slacking! Go get em! and, Come on, you're not even working, go faster! and I don't like it. Self-control during workouts is really important, and it's an active effort for me to tune out bad advice when Im amped up.
Seth Ariel Green, former collegiate runner
Whenever my dad would come to my races in high school, no matter how fast or slow I was running, he would always yell, You're doggin' it! I think he genuinely thought I wasn't trying hard enough sometimes.
Topalian
At mile 10 in a half-marathon, a woman who had already finished the race yelled, Lets go, turtles! in a patronizing voice. Sadly, she meant slow runners, not the cool ninja kind.
Pamela Kavalam, runner
Tempt runners with alcohol.
At mile 3 of the New Jersey Marathon, someone put a small table in the middle of the course with beer on it and a sign that said, Take one. Genius, but a real d*ck move.
Eric Jones, marathoner and triathlete
Give out false information.
At the beginning of the Brooklyn half-marathon, someone at the top of the big hill in Prospect Park said, It's all downhill from here! While I don't know why I thought it really would be 10 more miles downhill, I wanted to believe it. It was a rude awakening to find out the course wasnt downhill, but flat with some rollers and way more difficult than that guy made it out to be.
Mary Rose, half-marathoner and triathlete in training
Belittle the race itself.
Signs that say Worst Parade Ever make me think, Then why are you here?
Kelly
This article was written by Erin Kelly from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Glee's Amber Riley Tells the Haters: When You Call Me Fat, It's Not an Insult
description: Amber Riley is fat, and shes damn proud of it. While recovering from dental surgery, Riley took a stand against body shamers in an Instagram video. Most people who film these types of reaction videos (yes, there's a whole subgenre) capture themselves babbling nonsense about their childhood pets, but Riley had a message that we were pumped to hear: When you come on here and you call me fat, its not an insult, dummy. Hell yeah!
You know, there are just some things that my sober mind keeps me from sharing. That ends tonight. I've got some things I need to get off my chest: Why does me being fat offend so many people? Is it because I'm confident and I'm fly and I'm sexy? Do my thighs offend? Does my stomach offend? Does my big juicy ass offend? Why? Why? Let my big ass live. I let y'all live. I love all colors, shapes, and sizes. So just so you know, when you come on here and you call me fat, it's not an insult, dummy. My ass is fat, and the fellas love it. And so do I. So eat it.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The Case for Keeping Your Clothes on During Sex
description: We're not knocking nudity. We strip down to our birthday suit to do lots of important stuff: shower, use the restroom (kinda), get hot and heavy. But this video from The School of Life argues that keeping your clothes on during sex (even for just a little bit) heightens the excitement of eventual nakedness. So next time you find yourself in a steamy situation, dont immediately disrobe.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: These Playful Comics Nail What Its Like to Be Anxious All the Time
description: Thanks to the internet, we are seeing more people speak out about mental health in creative ways. Marzi Wilson's artwork is another perfect example of this. Her comics illustrate what it's like to navigate life as an introvert and struggle with anxiety, which she herself started experiencing as a teenager. Some might make you giggle (see "Why I'd Rather Be a Cat"), but the illustrations are also pretty powerful.
Check out a few of the comics below and follow Wilson on Instagram.Images: Introvert Doodles
h/t The Huffington Post
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: These Kids Trying Yoga Sum Up How We All Feel During Class
description: You never forget your first yoga class. The teacher instructs you to ease into a downward dog, and 10 seconds later your body is practically screaming from holding the so-called resting pose. Or as one of the kids in this BuzzFeed video puts it, "This is not relaxing at all!"
We identified with the newbie yogis as they worked through their first vinyasa and discovered how awkward and difficult poses can be. Luckily, yoga gets easier with practice. We just wish we'd started as early as these kids.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The FDAs New Food Labels Will Force Companies to Be More Honest
description: How much sugar is in that bag of chips you grabbed as an afternoon snack? Just look at the food label. But wait, the current nutrition facts lump added and natural sugars together, so you actually have no idea how much extra sweet stuff the manufacturers added.
That's about to change. The FDA just unveiled updates to the food nutrition label, requiring manufacturers to report total and added sugars. (A good rule of thumb: Try to avoid foods with a high percentage of added sugar.)
Other changes include larger, bolded type for calorie counts, serving size, and number of servings, so you can see how many how many calories are in that pint of ice cream without needing glasses.
Large companies have until July 26, 2018, to comply with the new standards, while smaller companies get an extra year.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Acidifying Waters Put Dungeness Crabs at Risk
description: When it comes to American culinary institutions, the Dungeness crabs that are hauled ashore from California to Washington state every winter season are the crustacean equivalents of apple pie.
The bountiful crab meat is a holiday staple in the San Francisco Bay Area and beyond. When crabbing was suspended in the fall by an algae outbreak, journalists flocked to docks to produce lead news stories
just as they did when crabbing was restricted following a 2007 oil spill.
Research published this month could give a crab connoisseur a case of acid reflux.Dungeness crabs for sale in Seattle.
Credit:erikzen/Flickr
Scientists reported in the journal Marine Biology that ocean acidification, which is caused when carbon dioxide pollution dissolves into oceans, can kill and stunt young crabs, potentially jeopardizing whole populations.
Its something thats projected into the future, but you dont want to wait until a crisis, John Mellor, a Dungeness crab fishermen who docks his boat in San Francisco, said during an interview last week in Washington,D.C., where he was meeting with lawmakers and others. Im here to try to convince people to give money for research.
Scientists grew eggs and larvae from Puget Sound crabs in water containing pH resembling current and future conditions. They reported that more acidic seawater slowed the development of embryos and larvae and caused an appreciable number of larvae to die.
{related}
Ocean acidification is caused by carbon dioxide pollution
the same pollutant from fuel burning and deforestation that changes the climate. After carbon dioxide dissolves into seawater, it undergoes chemical reactions that change the pH and remove chemicals needed by corals, shellfish and other creatures to produce rigid body parts.
West Coast waters are more prone to acidification than other regions. As the threat of acidifying waters weighs on the minds of crabbers, those who grow shellfish are already being directly affected. The Pacific Northwests oyster growing industry has been experiencing substantial losses of young shellfish linked to acidification since 2005.
The really tough situation with the shellfish industry on the West Coast was the first major alarm bell, said Jeff Watters, director of government relations at the nonprofit Ocean Conservancy. That was the first moment where you literally had an industry who said, Holy cow, this could shut us down.
Seth Miller, a Smithsonian Environmental Research Center scientist who wasnt involved with the new study, said it added Dungeness crabs to the long list of crustaceans and other invertebrates that will likely be negatively impacted by ocean acidification during their larval stages.
If Dungeness larvae develop slowly under acidified conditions, they're likely going to struggle even more when you layer on other climate-related stressors like rising temperatures, Miller said.
Miller said the research provides a first look at how acidification could affect crab populations. Scientists dont know whether acidification is affecting crab populations already
nor do they precisely know how it could affect them in the future.Dungeness crabs caught off California.
Credit:California Department of Fish and Wildlife/Flickr
We dont have any direct evidence that theyre currently being affected, except that in some places we see a decreased survival under conditions that currently exist in some places, said Paul McElhany, a NOAA ecologist who participated in the new study.
Were completely into new territory, McElhany said. Carbon dioxide has never changed this rapidly as far as we can tell.
The West Coasts crab population is a large one, occupying vast territory in the Pacific Ocean, raising hopes that it may harbor enough genetic variety to help it withstand environmental tumult, such as acidification. But how resilient it will actually be remains unknown.
Were only able to do experiments on a few life stages for a certain amount of time, McElhany said. So the question of the role that diversity might play in potential evolutionary response
thats something thats really just unknown at the moment.
The coastal Washington state district of Rep. Derek Kilmer, a Democrat, contains thousands of people whose livelihoods depend on shellfish. He has introduced legislation designed to spur more research through federal grants and innovation prizes.
I think theres a real concern that, as you see changing ocean chemistry, that thats a threat to their livelihood, Kilmer said. Were trying to shine a bright light on the problem.
Further research could help determine whether the crabs could evolve quickly enough or learn to adapt to changing pH concentrations. Such research may provide clues as to whether anything could be done to help crabs withstand acidification
apart from drastically curbing fossil fuel burning and deforestation, which is the goal of a new United Nations climate change treaty.
This bill is not going to solve all the worlds problems, Kilmer said. To me, this is one of many things that have to happen.
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: London's Bad Air Has The City Investing In An Electric Package Delivery Service
description: You might keep the car in the garage by shopping online instead of driving down to the mall, but all those deliveries add up to a lot of pollution in our cities. In London, the congestion caused by delivery vehicles rose 3.4% between 2008 and 2014, according to Bloomberg, and well over half of these vans are less than a quarter full. Worse, van traffic is expected to grow by 20% in the next 15 years.
That makes a big contribution to London's filthy air, which kills almost 10,000 people every year. But something is happening in London that could help assuage your guilt about your daily deliveries from Amazon and Zappos: electric delivery vehicles.
Gnewt Cargo is a fleet of all-electric delivery vehicles that delivers 20,000 packages per day in England's capital, and London's transport authority will be giving it more funding. Gnewt (Green New Transport) isn't a courier or delivery company that you use to send your parcels. Its clients are delivery companies like Hermes, TNT Express, and DX (the local equivalents of UPS and FedEx). "My clients send me all of their freight in bulk through the night," Gnewt boss Sam Clarke told Bloomberg, "and then we will sort it and do the last mile in town with zero emissions." Gnewt also operates co-branded vans, which adopt the various delivery companies' own liveries.
Electric deliveries are one way to curb delivery emissions in cities. Another is to consolidate deliveries, which is also part of Gnewt's offer. Why does each shipping company have to send its own quarter-full van down the same street, when somebody like Gnewt can make one trip? It's also better for the customer, who only has top answer the door and sign for packages once.
Many European cities also use human-powered delivery vehicles. Germany's entire postal service runs on bikes, with the postal workers pedaling seemingly impossible loads through rain, sun, and snow on their iconic yellow bikes. And in cities like Barcelona, where the narrow streets of the medieval gothic quarter make regular vans impractical, TNT uses electric-assisted trikes with big, locking cargo containers on the back.
The environmental savings are significant. By using Gnewt, Hermes Parcelnet cut the number of miles it traveled in a year by 80%, equating to a 67% drop in carbon dioxide pollution, reports Bloomberg.
Gnewt is still relatively small, with just over 100 vehicles in its fleet, but it delivered 2.6 million items last year. And whether or not Gnewt expands or moves into new cities, the advantages of its model are clear. Online shopping is already greener than driving to the store yourself, and consolidating deliveries, and making them in electric or human-powered vehicles, can make it even greener.
Photos: via Gnewt Cargo
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Emotional Empathy Gets Harder Once You've Frozen Your Face With Botox
description: In a cruel twist of fate, it turns out that people vain enough to have botulinum toxin injected into their faces to avoid wrinkles may also have their own emotional abilities stunted. The face-freezing effects of Botox make it hard for users to read the emotional expressions of other people, according to a new study.
Italian researchers showed the effect is caused by the phenomenon of embodimentor embodied cognitiona theory that says our brains process other people's emotions better when our bodies mimic them. In this case, we unconsciously mimic facial expressions to better understand the emotional state of another person. We make a small smile to better understand the smile we see on the person we're talking to, for example.
A botox-loaded face can't do this as easily, so the emotion-reading messages it would usually send to the brain are lowered.
"The thankfully temporary paralysis of facial muscles that this toxin causes impairs our ability to capture the meaning of other people's facial expressions," the study lead author Jenny Baumeister said in a press release.
Baumeister and her team carried out tests on botox victims both before and two weeks after their treatment and used a control group of people who weren't botoxed. The results showed a big change in the ability to read subtle expressions.
Big, obvious expressions are still legible. A wide grin is easy to interpret, but even so, the botox-filled participants fared worse when reading them. When it came to more fleeting expressions, though, they performed terribly. "For 'equivocal' stimuli that are more difficult to pick up," says co-author Francesco Foroni, "the effect of the paralysis was very strong."
Not that we need any more reasons to avoid botox, but if you were looking for one, here it is. Non-botoxers can also use this information to have some fun. You can, for instance, exchange knowing looks amongst your friends if a more narcissistic member of your group gets their face done. No matter how much eye-rolling or smirking you engage in, your-unwrinkled friend will be none the wiser.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Your Old Smartphone May Finally Be Recycled In A Smarter Way
description: When Apple announced that it collected 2,204 pounds of gold from old electronics through its recycling programs in 2015, headlines speculated that the company made $40 million in the process. That wasn't true: To comply with producer responsibility laws, Apple pays recyclers to handle piles of old gadgets. The value of precious metals might help offset that cost, but it isn't a way to rake in cash.
In fact, traditional recyclingwhich shreds down old gadgets and then attempts to separate old materials such as goldis a poor way to recover either the value of components or the environment footprint it took to make them. But recycling is beginning to evolve.
Hong Kong-based Li Tong Group (LTG), which operates 21 recycling facilities around the world, is one of the pioneers of newer methods of recycling. Instead of shredding gadgets and melting materials, the company uses new tools to carefully separate parts so they can be reused in something new.
"When you smelted something, you pretty much get nothing from it," says Linda Li, chief strategy officer at LTG. "No value recovery from it. The raw material value barely pays for the cost of recycling. Whereas now there are actually a lot of non-proprietary, generic parts from a defective product that can be reused."
When an old phone or tablet goes through the company's recycling process, first all of the data is erased. Then, after some visual inspection, the gadget is disassembled into parts such as the LCD display and battery pack. This requires specialized tools that are designed to get around products that were never designed to be disassembled into components.
Certain proprietary parts have to be destroyed because manufacturers don't want the IP stolen. But other generic parts can be reused, whole, in new products. An LCD screen from an old tablet could become a screen in the back of a taxi. A camera in a phone might be reused in a toy that needs a camera. In some cases, old phone parts might end up in a new, lower-end phone. Other companies might use them to repair or refurbish old gadgets.
By using whole components instead of materials, it's possible both to recover more financial value and have a much greater environmental impact. If you recycle silver the traditional way, it still needs to be processed into a new part; while you save the environmental impact of digging it up from the ground again, there's often a bigger carbon footprint involved with the rest of the manufacturing process.
In a lifecycle study LTG commissioned, they found that by repurposing an LCD screen alone, they could help a manufacturer save 70%-80% of the carbon footprint. "Traditional methods focus on smelting down the motherboard and maybe recovering some gold and silver, but we have found that actually the motherboard doesn't generate a lot of carbon footprint savings for you at all," Li says. "It's in the LCD."
Traditional recycling might not even touch an LCD at all, because it's mostly glass and doesn't have a financial value. "In our method, you save the whole thing," she says.
The company serves manufacturers such as Microsoft, Apple, Motorola, and Amazon. Other processes are also becoming more sophisticated, like Apple's new 29-arm robot that can automatically disassemble an iPhone 6s.
The challenge, however, is partly getting old electronics to the right places so they can be recycled into higher-value materials. Of the 93 million tons of e-waste that may be generated this year, much of it is likely to end up in dumps. Other gadgets still end up in developing countries, in places where "recycling" might mean burning toxic plastic parts over a fire. The challenge of collection will keep growing: E-waste is growing two to three times faster than any other type of waste.
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: These Six-Pack Rings Are Edible, So They Won't Kill Wildlife
description: The six-pack rings that hold together your beer cans might be the worst type of plastic to end up in oceans. Not only can they kill wildlife if they're eaten, but they can also trap and strangle animals. A new six-pack holdermade from wheat and barley instead of petroleumsolves the problem by being both edible and biodegradable.
Fish or other marine animals can safely nibble on the rings. And the plastic is designed to break down so quickly in ocean water that, according to the designers, the rings can't last long enough to trap a turtle or a bird.
"If our six pack ring ends up in the ocean in a matter of hours it starts breaking down, which also addresses the issue of animals getting stuck in them," says Gustavo Lauria, co-founder of We Believers, the creative agency that came up with the rings for Saltwater Brewery.(Your browser doesn't support iframe)If the claims are correct, it will be a helpful advancement. Most "biodegradable" plastic fails to actually break down in the ocean. On the beach, the engineers say the material can break down in 60 to 90 days.
The brewery wanted to work on a project related to ocean conservation, and the agency was inspired by the fact that beer had a direct connection to the problem of ocean plastic through six-pack rings. "We realized it was a unique opportunity to go beyond any kind of advertising campaign and have a brand reflect its vision on the product itself," Lauria says.
They experimented with seaweed, their first choice for the new material, but seaweed became too rigid outside of water. Instead, they ended up working with byproducts of the brewing processso the new rings also make use of waste, and have a minimal carbon footprint.
Now, the designers are hoping other breweries will follow, helping bring the cost of the new plastic down. Dozens of breweries have already reached out, and We Believers plans to begin a large manufacturing run this summer.
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Extreme Poverty Is Declining, But We're Aiming Too Low
description: The world is less poor than ever. The share of the world population living in "absolute poverty" is lower than it has ever been, according to data from the NYU Development Research Institute.
(Your browser doesn't support iframe)\As you can see from the chart above, the proportion of the human population living in extreme poverty is down from almost everyone a couple of hundred years ago to under 10% today. Taking just the data from the World Bank, which runs from 1981 until today, the percentage of extremely poor people has dropped by three quarters, to just under 10% of the total world population.
But these data, while encouraging, don't really tell the whole story. For example, today there are over 7 billion souls on Earth, and 10% equals 700 million people. Back in 1820, where this data begins, there were barely more than 1 billion people living, which means that the numbers haven't changed that much at all, in terms of suffering due to poverty.
Fast forward to the mid 1950s, when actual data becomes available for the world population, and our graph shows the start of a sharp spike downwards in poverty levels. The world circa 1955 was home to just 2.5 billion people, and the percentage of people living on $2 a day or less was 72%, or 1.8 billion humans. So, while a drop from 94% to 9.6% sounds great, in terms of actual individuals the difference is much smaller.
But perhaps the most misleading part of this data is that "extreme poverty" is defined as living on less than $1.90 per day. That's $693.50 a year. The chart's numbers are adjusted worldwide, to account for price differences between countries, but even then, places like the U.S. and most Northern European countries don't make it onto the charts, even though you'd have to work for less than two hours a week at minimum wage to earn $1.90 per day.
The $1.90 figure might be useful when talking about poverty in less developed economies, but it's far too low for talking about the United States. Even so, there are more than a million U.S. households surviving on $2 per day or less. According to this National Poverty Center brief from 2012, "about 1.46 million U.S. households with about 2.8 million children were surviving on $2 or less in income per person per day in a given month," and "about 866,000 households appear to live in extreme poverty across a full calendar quarter."
Worse, these numbers are rising, against the worldwide trend. So while in a general sense, extreme poverty is dwindling, what these numbers really tell us is that we're aiming too low, and that, despite this, we're still failing. Two bucks a day isn't any kind of target to be proud of, and yet it still seems too hard of a target to meet.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: How to Support a Partner Dealing With Depression
description: As a mental health counselor and someone who has battled depression for most of her life, I'm no stranger to the toll it can take on relationships.
While it differs from person to person, at its core, the illness causes people to feel lonely, inadequate, and misunderstoodeven isolated. Sometimes its because we don't want to inflict our pain on the people we love. Other times, it's because we've been hurt by (even well-meaning) others and don't want to risk feeling even worse than we already do.
When someone with depression withdraws from loved ones without communicating why, it leaves a lot of room for misinterpretation. A partner may not understand why their S.O. is distant, distracted, or even angry. They may wonder what they did to offend the other person, or they may be frustrated that their partner is suddenly detached from them.
In addition to intense feelings of shame, sadness, and worthlessness, depression can manifest itself physicallyincluding changes in sex drive, sleep; and appetite; energy loss; and even physical pain, such as headaches, stomach pains, and back or neck pain. This leads to more confusion for a partner, who may wonder why their loved one is often sick or generally disinterested in events and activities (including sex).
Expressing my feelings when I'm depressed has always been a challenge, especially in relationships. I'm afraid of coming across as whiny, ungrateful, or melodramatic. I have been blamed for the way I was feeling and told that I was a negative person. I have had a partner turn away from me as I was crying in bed, telling me he couldn't tolerate me when I was like that. Mostly, I have been ignored, or told to take a pill or go see a therapist so I could get fixed.
We've been able to develop a course of action that works for both of us, resulting in communication, understanding, and support.
Two years ago, I began a new relationship. Because of my previous experiences, it was difficult not to repeat the same habitsI withdrew when I was feeling depressed, closing myself off completely, which took a toll on our relationship.
But eventually, we were able to talk openly about my depression and behaviors surrounding it. Over time, we've developed a course of action that works for both of us, resulting in communication, understanding, and support. What works for us may not work for everyone, but these are methods we have found to be helpful.
5 Tips That Worked for Us1. Make communication your highest priority.
It can be as simple as switching your language from Gosh, Im so upset to I'm depressed to let your partner know that it's more than being annoyed about traffic or bills. Explaining your triggers, warning signs, and symptoms can help them better understand your illness and respond in a supportive and productive way.
2. Come up with code words.
For me, it can still be hard to say, I'm depressed. For some reason, those two words stick in my throat like cement. There are so many years of shame attached to them, and saying them sometimes feels like I'm giving in to the depression.
During times like this, my partner has worked out a way for us to continue communicating. He will ask, Is it in the kitchen or the living room?meaning, how intensely are you feeling it right now? I'll respond that it's down the street, or at the door, or in bed with me.
Another way we increase communication is through more direct questions. When I say I don't feel well, he will ask Physically or emotionally? This opens up the conversation for specifics, instead of one or both of us shutting down.
Accept that this is part of your relationship with your partner, instead of trying to change or cure them.
3. Dont try to solve the problem.
Partners of those struggling with depression tend to feel helpless and may jump to problem-solving or giving advice. Often, someone who is depressed knows what they need to do to feel better; they don't have the energy to do so in that moment. In these situations, it is very powerful to simply be with your partner. Accept that this is part of your relationship, instead of trying to change or cure them. Holding their hand, giving eye contact, and actively listening can help far more than offering suggestions for things they should be doing. Talking through thoughts and feelings can effectively reduce symptoms, and knowing that someone loves you when you're feeling at your worst is both healing and empowering.
4. Provide basic comforts.
Drawing a warm bath, whipping up a meal or a cup of tea, or even giving a back rub can be life-changing for someone suffering with depression. Because depression often makes people feel unworthy or unattractive, words of encouragement are also vital. Finding other ways to be intimate when your partner is not feeling well shows sensitivity and relieves pressure from a partner who may feel inadequate.
5. Give reminders and encouragement.
People with depression may believe the things they are feeling are a result of who they are as a person, which can result in self-loathing. They may feel shame or guilt for not being able to better control their emotions. My partner will often remind me that my depression is not me, and that I am separate from it. He also reminds me that depression is an illness, and like any other illness, the one who is sick is not to blame. When he points out my strengths and past successes, it empowers me and reminds me that I will eventually feel better again.
The Bottom Line
While a partner may not be able to take away their loved one's depression, they can provide the strong support system that is vital to a person's mental health and sense of self. Through patience, understanding, and open communication, a partner gives their loved one a space to heal and feel safe to communicate what they are feeling. Having a relationship where one or both partners experience depression can be a challenge, but if both are willing to put in the time and effort, the result can be a strong, supportive relationship built on trust and understanding.
This article was written by Lauren Hasha from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Running Shoe Inspired By Kenya's Elite Runners Is Actually Made In Kenya
description: Kenya's elite, world-record runners are the superstars of a surging global running culture. An entire cottage field of study has evolved around explaining the Kenyans' running "secrets," often tied to selling shoes, books, magazines, or gear of some sort. Nike's Air Rift shoe"inspired by the efficient barefoot style" of Kenyan runners in the Great Rift Valleyretails for $100, for instance.
For all of this, the runners and the broader economy of Kenya don't benefit very much. The most decorated runners get lucrative sponsorships and prize money, but income earned by those training at the nation's' famed running centers drops off quickly if they're not winning races. Many runners remain impoverished. (A scandal that rocked the country over the last year revealed that sports officials had embezzled large sponsorship payments from Nike that were supposed to benefit poor athletes, prompting protests).
This is why a pair of social entrepreneurs is now aiming to make the first high-performance running shoe that will be made largely in Kenya and benefit Kenyans. The company, called Enda"go" in Swahiliis launching the shoes with a $75,000 Kickstarter funding campaign today.
"We wanted to channel the energy around running into something that can have much more of an impact on the people of Kenya," says Enda cofounder Navalayo Osembo-Ombati. "If you think about the magnitude of the industry worldwide, and if you think about how Kenya is used for marketing, this is low-lying fruit."
With Enda, Osembo-Ombati and her cofounder Weldon Kennedy, an American living in Kenya, hope to connect runners in the West to the country's running culture, leveraging it to create domestic jobs and economic growth rather than benefit global corporations. Their plan now is that the shoes will be assembled in Kenya with materials made in China. In the long term, the goal will be to make the entire shoe domestically. The company also plans to donate an as-yet-undetermined percentage of profits to community initiatives, decided by voting from Enda customers.
Osembo-Ombati and Kennedy developed the idea after meeting at an entrepreneurial workshop. Growing up near the city Eldoret, in the region where elite marathoners train, Osembo-Ombati had already been thinking about the ways that sports could be used to benefit her country by planning to open a small sports academy. Given the $17 billion athletic shoe market in the U.S. alone, the two believed a Kenyan-made running shoe marketed in the West, where amateur running is more popular, would be the best way to use the power of Kenya's running reputation to further benefit the country's economy.
The shoe, which will retail for around $100 but is available now on Kickstarter for $85, is somewhere between a lightweight trainer and racing shoe. The pair collaborated with the product design firm Birdhaus, which has worked with Under Armour and Reebok, in its creation and have been testing their prototype with runners in Kenya's highlands, including the racers Justin Lagat and Joan Cherop. Its racing debut will be at the New York City marathon in November. The shoe's constructionoriented toward the forefoot, with no arch supportis a nod to Kenya's barefoot running style that has become popular in the last few years, yet it contains more rubber to give added protection for trail running. Its look and colors also feature a few subtle nods to Kenyan culture but wouldn't look out of place next to Nike on store shelves.
"We wanted it to look contemporary and urbane anywhere in the world, but whisper a Kenyan feel," says Kennedy. If successful, he hopes Enda can build "made in Kenya" as a hip, contemporary brand itself, just like "made in Switzerland" is equated with precision engineering and "made in Italy" equals luxury.
Making the shoes fully in Kenya won't be easy, though. Demand for the shoes would have to be significant enough to merit building manufacturing capacity that doesn't exist yet. For example, says Kennedy, the easiest shoe component to make domestically would be the midsole foam, but the high-quality foam grade needed isn't available in Kenya now. However, he says he's already tracked down and spoken with a company with the needed equipment. Should the company grow beyond his wildest dreams, say capturing even a few percentage points of the global running shoe market, he estimates that Enda could create several hundred to maybe 1,000 jobs doing production domestically.
Kennedy believes the Enda brand will attract avid American runners. He was in a running shop in Colorado once when a clerk asked if he could keep some of the red Kenyan dust from his shoes: "I might as well have said it was magic dust," he says.
This article was written by Jessica Leber from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 23 Ways to Eat Greens (That Aren't Salads)
description: By now we're probably much better at appreciating the fiber-filled, vitamin-rich, and antioxidant benefits of the green vegetables we fought so hard not to eat when we were kids (sorry, Mom!). Luckily there are plenty of ways to incorporate them into meals without getting stuck in a salad rut. From broccoli at breakfast to peas for dessert (really!), these recipes prove that when it comes to any meal, it's easy to be green.
BreakfastPhoto: B. Britnell1. Kale and Garlic Frittata
Putting kale in egg dishes is becoming a lot more popular these days, and it's easy to see why. Sturdier than spinach, these vision-protecting, calcium-touting leaves can maintain their slightly chewy texture through the baking process and lend a pretty green color to the frittata ribbons.Photo: Whisk and Shout2. Tofu Scramble With Spring Greens
Even those on a plant-based diet can use a boost in their green intake, and this recipe helps them do it in the most delicious way. In fact, the garlic and turmeric-spiced broccoli, peas, and spinach sauted with tofu is so flavorful even meat eaters may opt for this savory breakfast alternative to eggs.Photo: Memeinge3. Spinach Pancakes
If it wasn't for that giveaway color, you wouldn't be able to tell that there are two full cups of spinach in this fluffy, sweet breakfast stack. St. Patrick would totally approve, but go ahead and make this any day of the year.Photo: Bowl of Delicious4. Asparagus, Pea, and Gruyre Spring Omelette
A generous handful of cheese makes this fresh, fluffy omelet a tad bit richer than what you'd typically whip up every day. But, as a once-in-a-while breakfast, this delicious option can't be beat.Photo: Chocolate Slopes5. Ham and Vegetable Breakfast Casserole
Great to fix for a group brunch or simply as a dish that will last a few days, this bake balances meat, cheese, and egg with an entire container of frozen spinach, plus green peppers for extra vitamin C. Just a serving will put you well on your way to meeting your veggie requirements for the day.Photo: In Sonnet's Kitchen6. Fruit-Free Green Smoothie
Drink your greens with this breakfast smoothie that features four varieties of them! You won't find the typical banana or berries in this recipe, but the natural sweetness of coconut water and cucumber cut the spice from the parsley. Plus, the creamy avocado provides healthy fats to help power you through the morning.
Soups and SandwichesPhoto: Wendy Polisi7. Chicken Quinoa Collard Wraps
Use collard greens as a substitute for a tortilla wrap. The thick-stemmed leaves of this chronic disease-preventing veggie are perfect for holding the bulkier ingredients, like chicken breast and quinoa, and their chewy texture will leave you feeling like you've had a hearty meal.Photo: Vegan Heaven8. Green Monster Veggie Burger
Peas, kale, broccoli, and celery make these vegan burgers big in both size and nutritional benefits, providing fiber and antioxidants. Blended with oats, breadcrumbs, and walnuts, the jumbo patties would make just as filling a meal on their own as they do piled onto buns with all the fixins.Photo: Primal Bites Blog9. Super Greens Soup
Just one serving of this soup boasts three and a half cups of greens. Plus, since it can be ready in about 30 minutes and is simply seasoned with salt and pepper, it's incredibly easy to get in your veggies for the day. To give it more of a protein punch, top with grilled chicken.Photo: Minimalist Baker10. Better Than Restaurant Falafel
True to its title, this version of the Middle Eastern chickpea favorite is a step up from restaurant falafel. First, they're pan-cooked rather than fried, saving you a good amount of oil, and second, they pack in four entire cups of nutrient-dense collard greens. Put them in a pita or eat them on their own.Photo: The Lemon Bowl11. Lemony Chicken Soup With Greens
Simmered chicken breast, chickpeas, and a bag of spinach may seem like the ingredients for a sick day soup, but here they're kicked up with a heaping spoonful or two of cinnamon and a hearty squeeze of lemon. You definitely don't need to be under the weather to for this bowl to hit the spot.Photo: Mango Tomato12. Green Goddess Sandwich
Though it gets its name from the famous salad dressing, this sandwich has none of the mayonnaise or anchovy fillets that the condiment usually contains. Instead, it earns its title with all the green veggies packed between whole-wheat bread, from thick slices of avocado and cucumber to watercress and cilantro leaves.
EntreesPhoto: Snixy Kitchen13. Salmon Tacos With Green Onion and Asparagus Salsa
Napa cabbage, spring onions, and asparagus share the limelight (get it?) with salmon in these flavor-packed tacos; in fact, you may not even notice the fish underneath all those greens until you take a bite! There are several steps to this recipe, but you can do most of them in one pan, so you won't be stuck with a sink full of dishes.Photo: Pinch of Yum14. Kale Pesto Zoodles (With Shrimp)
More robust in taste than spinach, kale joins the party in this dairy-free sauce. Packing even more greens into this dish, the pesto coats spiralized zucchini rather than regular pasta, while sauted shrimp adds a nice pop of red and some filling protein to the meal.15. Pea, Spinach, and Broccoli Pasta
From the five types of vegetables to the herbs, it's no wonder the blogger nicknamed this dish "fifty shades of green." Serve it when you need a crowd-pleasing meal that looks irresistible, tastes decadent, and has tons of fiber and heart-healthy fats.Photo: Spice Chronicles16. Saag Paneer
If you've ever been to an Indian restaurant, you've probably tried this popular spinach-based dish. There's a lack of traditional spices in this version, but from the four cups of leafy greens to the cumin and ginger, it keeps the essential ingredients intact and is still impressively authentic.Photo: Letty's Kitchen17. Dirty Rice With Collard Greens and Leeks
This healthier take on a soul food classic features brown rice, pumpkin seeds, and ribbons of collard greens, lending a peppery bite to each mouthful. Vegan and gluten-free, it's one of the cleanest dirty rice recipes we've come across.
Sweet TreatsPhoto: Happy Healthy Mama18. Mint Chocolate Chip Pea Pops
If you don't have a popsicle mold, you may want to buy one for this recipe. Blending peas with yogurt and fresh mint leaves, then adding chocolate chips, these frozen treats are too intriguing not to try.Photo: Amy's Healthy Baking19. Chocolate Chip Zucchini Bread Oatmeal Cookies
A quick bread takes cookie form in these super-healthy baked goods. With just two tablespoons of butter in the entire batter, the cup of zucchini is not just a sneaky way to add green veggies, but also a crucial source of moisture.Photo: Plated With Style20. Avocado, Kale, and Cashew Parfait
With fewer than 10 ingredients, make an impressivebut easy!three-layer dessert. The cookie bottom and strawberry middle are great texture contrasts to the show-stopping, honey-sweetened avocado and kale mousse on top.Photo: Scooter Cakes21. Spinach Chocolate Chip Muffins
A bag of leafy spinach is one of just 10 ingredients in these mini baked treats, and while the results may look like you went to town on food dye, dig in with comfort in knowing that the color is au naturel.Photo: Texanerin22. Zucchini Chocolate Brownies
Somewhere inside all of that chocolate are two cups of grated zucchini. You'll be eating a fudgy brownie, but you'll be benefiting from a different kind of goodnessof the vitamin C varietyfrom the green veggie. Talk about a win-win!Photo: Veggie Desserts23. Kale and Apple Cake With Apple Icing
Discard the tough kale stems and pure just the leaves to add to this light, fluffy cake batter. If it weren't for that giveaway color (those eye health-boosting carotenoids need to make their presence felt!), you'd never know that there are two cups of greens in this dessert.
This article was written by Anisha Jhaveri from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Sleek Air Purifier Breaks Down Pollutants At The Molecular Level
description: When you breathe at work, you might be sucking in airborne pollution from your printer, formaldehyde from your desk, chemicals from carpet or paint, mold from a ventilation system, and particles from your coworker's cough. The air in your home isn't necessarily fresher, even if you happen to have an air purifier: Filters can't catch all pollution.
A new air purifier called Molekule takes a different approach. Instead of trying to catch pollutants in a physical filter, it claims to attack them chemically, breaking bacteria, viruses, mold, and airborne chemicals down into water and carbon dioxide.
The purifier is the result of two decades of research from chemical engineering professor Yogi Goswami, who typically works on solar energy technologybut was inspired to work on the problem of indoor air pollution because of his son's struggles with asthma and allergies, which often landed the family in the emergency room.
"We tried many, many different things, and finally he felt that what's out there isn't really solving the problem," says Dilip Goswami, his son and cofounder and CEO of the new startup. "He went into the lab and spent many years researching a technology that could actually break down pollution in the air at the molecular level."
The technology took inspiration from a solar photovoltaic cell, which converts sunlight into electricity. "We use that same principle of light shining on a surface, that we've coated with a special catalyst," Goswami says. "Instead of taking that energy out as electricity, we use that energy for a chemical reaction that happens on the surface of a filter that we're running air through."
A similar reaction happens in the Earth's upper atmosphere, where light reacts with water vapor to break down some pollution. "We've kind of bottled that up and put it in a device and made it many, many times more efficient, so that it can break down pollution indoors," he says.
It's also a similar process to the coating that some buildings use to break down smog (Yogi Goswami was the first to use the technique for air pollution, in the 1990s), but faster and more efficiently.
HEPA filterstechnology first invented during the Manhattan Project to catch radioactive dustcan only catch larger particles of pollution and miss microscopic pollution. (The makers of Molekule say it can destroy pollutants 1,000 times smaller than a HEPA filter and, unlike a carbon filter, can fully eliminate VOCs.) In some cases, filters can even make air worse. When Jaya Rao, Dilip's sister and cofounder of the company, moved into a new house, she realized that the filter in the home's HVAC system was covered with mold growth.
"You just don't realize, because you think, I'm safe here," she says. "But the people that lived there before were breathing that stuff, and we were breathing it until we saw it."
In a hospital, the devices could help stop the spread of dangerous illnesses, something that hand washing and hand sanitizers can't fully address. "It creates another line of defense in terms of if somebody sneezes, and that virus gets aerosolized in the air, it's going to get destroyed instead of infecting somebody else," says Goswami.
Still, the purifier isn't intended to completely sterilize the airjust to bring indoor air, which can be five times more polluted than outdoor air, back to safer levels.
After 20 years of iteration and testing, including peer-reviewed studies, the new purifier is launching today on the startup's website.
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Most Americans Think The U.S. Should Do More To Accept Refugees
description: Over the last six months or so, Congress has proposed 31 anti-refugee billswith about half of those specifically targeting Muslims or Syrians. Governors in 13 states have said that they would refuse to accept resettled refugees. But a new survey from Amnesty International shows that most Americans think the U.S. should be doing more to help refugees, not turning them away.
An amazing 71% of Americans say they would let refugees into the country, and 15% say they would accept them into their own homes. "That's astoundingnot just to say 'okay, come and live somewhere here,' but 'you can come into my spare room,'" says Tarah Demant, a senior director at Amnesty International.
"This shows the level of commitment people have," she says. "I think it's the question of seeing human suffering and understanding the human aspect of this crisis. Instead, what politicians are doing is using fear and hate to try and drive a political agenda."
The survey looked at attitudes about refugees in 27 countries around the world; the U.S. ranked ninth in terms of support for resettlement. China ranked as most accepting (46% said they would take a refugee into their own home), which may be partly because the country doesn't currently accept a lot of refugees, so it's more of an academic question there.
In the U.S., where the administration sets levels of refugee intake, President Obama said that we would have 85,000 spots for refugees this year, and another 100,000 next year. "These increases are meaningful and they're laudable," says Demant. "But they're really just a drop in the bucket in terms of what the United States can and should be doing."
Around the world, 1 in 122 peoplealmost 1% of the global populationare displaced from their homes every day by war, violence, or persecution. There are 4.8 million Syrian refugees alone. In the survey, 63% of Americans said they think the U.S. should be doing more.
"Anti-refugee sentiment is fully out of step with the American people," Demant says. "It's also out of step with our human rights obligations."
All Photos (unless otherwise noted): via Amnesty International
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: How to Stop Your Mind From Racing in the Middle of the Night
description: Are you gifted with the ability to doze off instantly every night, sleeping until the momentor just beforeyour alarm goes off? No? Then you can probably relate to being woken up in the middle of the night by terrifying, irrational thoughts.
Why didnt Sarah respond to my email? Is she upset with me?
What if I have an illness I dont know about?
Am I spending too much money on online shopping?
Did I act like a jerk at work?
Is my mom going to be OK?This is a pretty precise example of my mental thought loop on nights I cant sleep. And its exhaustingphysically and mentally.
If you struggle with anxiety, insomnia, or a combination of the twothis will sound familiar. Lately, with multiple projects on my plate, I have been waking up around 2 a.m. and staying awake until around 5 a.m. Its hell.
Fortunately, I've come up with some strategies to help me relax that don't involve reaching for my phone and firing up my tired mind with email and Instagram. These four tried-and-true tricks help me calm down and eventually drift back to sleep.
1. Acknowledge (most of) your worries are absurd.
There is nothing like the pitch-black silence of the middle of the night to make us see things in a totally irrational light. Nighttime doesn't offer the distractions that daytime does (such as other people, activity, and work), so our minds can easily go into overdrive unless we are careful. If your thought loop is anything like mine, you know that these thoughts simply don't arise any other time of day.
Our minds can easily go into overdrive unless we are careful.
The morning, on the other hand, brings a totally fresh perspective. When I wake up, sit up, and recall my overactive worries, I roll my eyes and shake my head at myself. I try to remember this eye roll and headshake during my next 2 a.m. panic attack.
2. Write it down.
If you come up with a million things to put on your to-do list or anything constructive (one benefit of early-morning silence is those random lightbulb moments of inspiration), simply write it down. Keep an old-school notebook and pen on your bedside table, so you dont whip out your phone and get lured into a 45-minute social media affair. There's nothing like dumping out whats on your mind, including important to-dos, notes, and ideas, to feel instantly calmer.
3. Take a deep breath.
Once youve acknowledged the illogical nature of your worries and/or emptied your mind onto paper, the next step takes some discipline. In The Sleep Revolution, Arianna Huffington says that she pictures a tranquil lake to fall asleep.
She also calls breathing the ultimate sleep hack: 25 deep breaths and visualizing an image of something calm can have magical powers, I swear. Try it and see (and not just two deep breaths and a fleeting image). Commit to it! Whats the alternative?
4. Remind yourself you'll be OK.
Whats the worst that can happen if you lose some sleep? You feel tired the next day? Buy an extra large coffee (or two) and go to sleep earlier the next night. Unless you have something like an important work event, you can probably cancel the following evenings plans. Ive done this a few times recently and people are surprisingly supportive when I tell them the truth: I haven't been sleeping well. I was awake at ungodly hours last night. Id be really terrible company tonight. People get it. Almost everyone has experienced this at some point in their lives. It happens.
Whats the worst that can happen if you lose some sleep?
Funny enough, this final piece of advice is what really helps me fall back to sleep in the end. I picture a quieter day, a large Starbucks soy miso on my desk, and the following night spent watching trashy reality TV on my couch. And I will chuckle when I recall my midnight panic the night before.
Susie Moore is Greatists life coach columnist and a confidence coach in New York City. Sign up for free weekly wellness tips on her website and check back every Tuesday for her latest No Regrets column!
This article was written by Susie Moore from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Woman's Defiant Response to Body Shamers Is Too Good
description: Hannah Battiste was tired of internet trolls making comments about her weight and clothing choices. So in the best response to body shamers maybe ever, the 18-year-old from Canada decided to chin upliterally. In a series of selfies she posted on Facebook, she revealed a line written on her chin aimed at her haters: "F*ck you."Photos: Hannah Battiste/FacebookIn the post she wrote:
My reaction when someone judges me"You gained weight." So what? Being thick is a choice! "Why do you wear dresses?" Why TF not? If I wanna wear a dress through all the seasons, then I'm going to! No matter what you do, whether it's right or wrong, people are going to judge yougo ahead and judge me, I know who I am, and I know my purpose in life.
As she told BuzzFeed News, "I made humor out of it because I don't really care what people think of me."
Mic drop.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Why You Jump in Your Sleep
description: If you've ever been drifting off to sleep and suddenly felt your entire body freak out, you're not alone. As this video from SciShow explains, about 70 percent of the population experiences "hypnic jerks" (a.k.a. sleep starts). Scientists aren't exactly sure what causes them, but this video explores two ideasone based on neuroscience and the other on evolution. Most experts say sleep starts aren't dangerous, but if you hate how they feel, try getting more shut-eye, limiting your caffeine intake, exercising in the morning, and managing your stress levels.
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: U.S. Leads Globe in Oil Production for Third Year
description: The U.S. led the world last year in producing both oil and gas, federal government estimates published Monday show,even as the country committed to cutting greenhouse gas emissions.
The U.S. was the globes leading producer of crude oil for the third year in a row in 2015. Government estimates show that crude oil production has continued to grow across the country, from nearly 8 million barrels of oil per day in 2008 to about 15 million in 2015. The U.S. produced about 14 million barrels per day in 2014.
An oil refinery in Texas.
Credit: Roy Luck/flickr
Thanks to the fracking boom, which unlocked previously hard-to-reach shale oil and gas, the U.S. surpassed Saudi Arabia and Russia to become the worlds leading producer of oil in 2013. The U.S. became the top natural gas producer in 2011, and has led the world in both oil and gas production together for four years in a row.
As oil prices remain low, U.S. oil production is expected to decline slightly in 2016 and 2017, falling to about 14.5 million barrels per day, the estimates show. U.S. Energy Information Administration analyst Linda Doman said the decline is not likely to mark 2015 as an all-time peak in U.S. oil production, which could pick up if and when oil prices climb again.
{related}
The uptick in crude production last year came as the U.S. helped strike the Paris Climate Agreement, which aims to keep global warming from exceeding 2 C (3.6 F) above pre-industrial levels. The Obama administration also killed the Keystone XL Pipeline last year, partly because the oil it would carry would worsen climate change.
Climate scientists say U.S. oil and gas production trends and the administrations all of the above energy strategy, which includes encouraging fossil fuels and renewables production, dont square well with its climate policy.
Credit: EIA
The U.S. can lead the world in both climate action and crude oil production, but not for long, said Jonathan Koomey, a research fellow at the Steyer-Taylor Center for Energy Policy and Finance at Stanford University. To preserve a stable climate we need to phase out fossil fuel consumption as fast as possible, starting as soon as possible. This is why the administration's all of the above energy strategy is incoherent. We have to stop building new fossil fuel infrastructure and start retiring existing infrastructure.
The White House did not respond to a request for comment on Monday.
Penn State University climate scientist Michael Mann said the U.S. must embrace renewable energy more fervently and decarbonize the economy.
It is necessary both for avoiding catastrophic climate change and retaining our international economic competitiveness, he said. The good news is that were moving in that direction, though
as we can see with these latest numbers
the benefits of very recent climate policies enacted under the Obama administration have yet to be fully realized.
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Feeling Anxious? Add These Songs to Your Playlist
description: Music has the power to instantly change your mood. Listening to AC/DC's "Thunderstruck" gets us amped up to the point where standing on our desks and pounding our fists seems perfectly acceptable. In the same vein, Taylor Swift's "Out of the Woods" leaves us nostalgic for past relationships.
So it's no surprise that ambient (or instrumental) music can actually make you feel calm and serene. As this video from Noisey explains, it can help whether you suffer from anxiety or just need to calm down after a stressful day at work. Weve been listening all day and feel totally chill. To get started, check out this Spotify playlist:
See playlist on Spotify
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Abrupt Atlantic Ocean Changes May Have Been Natural
description: Climate change may not have been to blame for an abrupt recent slowdown of a sweeping Atlantic Ocean current, a change that delivered an intense pulse of ocean warming and sea level rise through the Gulf of Maine and elsewhere along the East Coast.
Modeling-based analysis by British scientists, published Monday in Nature Geoscience,concluded that the decline in the Atlantic meridional overturning circulation (AMOC) from 2004 to 2014 was part of decadal variability of the North Atlantic, representing a recovery following a previous strengthening of its currents.Atlantic Ocean currents influence the weather and sea levels.
Credit: John Spade/Flickr
Still, leading scientists warn that greenhouse gas pollution appears to be causing the circulation pattern to slow down, and that it will continue to do so with far-reaching implications for weather and for flood-prone cities and farms around the world.
The findings were based on analysis of data from Met Office weather forecasting models. They were generally welcomed by other scientists, who said they point to the powerful role that the whims of nature can play on the ocean cycle
even as greenhouse gas pollution causes ice sheets to melt, which prior research has shown is causing the circulation to slow overall.
{related}
The decline weve seen is much larger than we would have expected just from increasing greenhouse gases over the last decade, said Tom Delworth, a climate scientist with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and Princeton University. He wasn't involved with the study.
The AMOC washes warm equatorial waters toward the Arctic and shuffles cold Arctic waters southward, helping to regulate ocean and air temperatures.
Greenhouse gas pollution has caused air temperatures to rise nearly 2F globally since the Industrial Revolution, warming oceans and causing seas to rise worldwide now by an average of more than an inch per decade. The Atlantic circulation slowdown caused impacts to be especially pronounced along the East Coast, worsening floods and devastating some fisheries.The slowdown of the Atlantic circulation was particularly pronounced around 2009 and 2010, which research has shown contributed to a frenetic Atlantic hurricane season and to unusually cold winters in parts of North America and Europe. More recently, it may have intensified the January blizzard that briefly shut down New York and other East Coast cities.
As ocean currents go, the AMOC also plays an outsized cultural role in framing conversations about global warming. The effects of its slowdown were fictionalized in the 2004 science fiction movie, The Day After Tomorrow. Two years later, links between climate change and the ocean current were explained in the climate change documentary, An Inconvenient Truth.
The new paper didnt attempt to determine the root cause of the cycles that periodically cause the Atlantic circulation to strengthen and weaken. Like other scientists, Laura Jackson, a Met Office scientist who led the research, said the most likely explanation was natural variability.
Our results suggest that there hasnt been a persistent weakening of the AMOC over the last 20 years, Jackson said. More years of observations would be required to identify an ongoing trend. This does not change the view that it is very likely that the AMOC will weaken over the 21st century.A January blizzard in New York may have been intensified by changes in the Atlantic Ocean's circulation patterns.
Credit:Stacey Bramhall/Flickr
Although the findings were well received overall by other scientists, the suggestion that the recent slowdown represented a recovery following a previous speedup triggered some consternation. Thats because it could be seen as diminishing the long-term role of climate change in affecting the circulation.
Michael Mann, a Penn State meteorology professor who contributed to research last year showing the AMOC is weaker now than in the last 1,000 years, said the conclusions of the new paper were consistent with our findings.
But Mann described the use of the word recovery in the title and abstract of the paper as a gaffe that detracts considerably from what would otherwise be a useful contribution to the peer-reviewed literature.
Chris Roberts, a Met Office scientist who contributed to the new paper, defended the work by pointing out that the teams focus was limited to addressing changes that have been observed over the last couple of decades
rather than over recent centuries or into the future.
Our results do not exclude a longer-term weakening, Roberts said.
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Period Stains Suck. Here Are 3 Easy Ways to Get Rid of Them
description: There are more options for dealing with your period than evercramp blockers, reusable period products, and even a Bluetooth tampon that tells you when to change it. But let's face it: Period stains still happen. And they suck. This video from Buzzfeed teaches three easy cleaning hacks, so you don't have to throw out yet another pair of undies. Better yet, you probably have most of the ingredientswater, salt, hydrogen peroxide, and Advilalready.
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Feast Your Eyes on the Worlds Longest Pizza
description: A team of more than 100 chefs congregated in Naples, Italy, last Thursday with one goal: Create the world's longest pizza. It took them 11 hours, about 4,400 pounds of flour, 3,500 pounds of tomatoes, 4,400 pounds of cheese, and 53 gallons of olive oil to make the 6,082-foot-long beast of a pizzathat's 1.15 miles of greasy goodness! Even more impressive? It was all sourced by local suppliers. The obvious follow-up question is how long does it take to eat it? (And can we help?)
Feast your eyes on the gargantuan pie:
(h/t Guinness World Records)
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Ex-Google Engineers Are Working On Making All Trucks That Drive Themselves
description: Self-driving trucks might be the first casualties of the autonomous vehicle revolution, and four ex-Googlers have started a company called Otto that will hasten their demise. And unlike purpose-designed autonomous trucks from companies like Daimler, Otto converts existing rigs into self-driving road robots.
Autonomous trucks are attractive in part because the economies of swapping out human drivers are so enticing. Which is a nice way of saying that human truck drivers are inefficient. They need mandatory rest breaks, they may drive with a heavy foot on the gas, and they crash. A robot truck has none of these problems, and it can drive all day long without a break. Which isn't to say that human drivers will disappear immediately. The person in the cab can take care of trickier maneuvers, like when the truck in in the city, and they can crawl up into their cot and take a long rest while their truck eats up the long, monotonous highway miles.
(Your browser doesn't support iframe)The Otto team's approach is quite Googley. Just like Google's own autonomous cars, the Otto trucks are regular trucks, retrofitted with cameras, lidar, and radar. Currently it is testing three Volvo cabs on the roads of Nevada. According to Medium's Backchannel, the "aftermarket self-driving kit will sell for a 'small fraction' of the $100,000-$300,000 price of a new tractor cab."
Otto's tech is built for highways, not for navigating a truck through the suburbs and into the city. This in itself makes the problem a lot easier to solve. "There are only 222,000 miles of highway in the U.S., just 5% of the roads in the country." Otto co-founder Lior Ron told Backchannel. "They're easier to map and it's a much more constrained problem to solve than all those city and rural streets. There are no pedestrians or traffic lights, but you do drive at high speeds and you do need to see far ahead."
Otto says that its hardware and software is "tuned for the consistent patterns and easy to predict road conditions of highway driving." A truck's sheer size is also an advantage, allowing sensors to be mounted up high, with an unobstructed view of the road ahead.
Trucks are , carrying up 70% of the cargo moved around the U.S. Annually, America's 4.3 million trucks carry 14 billion tons of freight. They also create more than a , yet make up just 1% of traffic. Human-steered trucks are also dangerous, causing 9.5% of highways fatalities, despite contributing just 5.6% of miles covered.
So far, Otto has logged test miles on highways in Nevada, with a human driver, designed to train the instruments and software. The team has even carried out one short test with no driver at all, but it'll be a while before anything is commercially available.
Anything that can improve the situation has to be good. Drivers will be less stressed, trucks safer, and the trucking companies will get more hours out of each vehicle. We might be able to remove cars from cities, but unless the U.S.'s railways suddenly come back to life, then trucks aren't leaving the highways any time soon. Otto's autonomous trucks are a great practical first step to making them safer, and cutting down on the pollution they cause.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The Cost Of Solar Power Keeps Falling--But It's Not All About Price
description: Things are going really well for solar. The cost of solar power has fallen by 65% in the last five years, and there's been a 10-fold increase in the number of solar installations. And these trends are surely set to continue as the technology becomes cheaper and more productive, in the manner of Moore's law.
But this isn't enough for solar to take up a big role in the energy system. As a new report from the U.S. Department of Energy shows, solar's value is still conditional on where and when it's produced and who is producing it (homeowners, businesses or utilities). It's not all about price.
If we want more solar, says the DOE, we also have worry what it costs to market, install, and interconnect the system (these "soft costs" are higher in the U.S. than in other countries), whether the energy can be stored in batteries for later use, and whether accountants measure its environmental benefits.
The DOE's 2011 SunShot Initiative looked to reduce the cost of solar energy technologies 75% by 2020. It now says we're 70% of the way there. But it says before solar becomes truly mainstreamsay a 25% market penetrationother things need to happen as well. The grid needs more flexibility and resilience, for example in the doubling the amount of advanced inverter capacity. We need financial innovation to allow people to sign up for solar. And we need market reform to stop utilities worried about their business model from throttling solar's growth. Solar experts explore how to do this in a series of reports from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory.
If we do manage to meet the Sunshot Initiative's goal of meeting 27% of U.S. energy demand with solar by 2050, the environmental benefits would be substantial, according to the last paper in the series. We'd see a 10% drop in greenhouse gas emissions and plenty of lives would be saved from better air quality.
"By displacing that generation, solar could produce $426 billion in savings from future health and environmental damages and save more than 25,000 lives," the report says.
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: These 12 Sunscreens Are Lying About Their SPF
description: It takes only one long day at the beach to realize the importance of sunscreen. Sunscreen protects against two types of rays: UVA and UVB. The latter causes sunburns, but any product with an SPF above 15 should protect you. Anything higher gives you marginally better protection against burns but does a better job of reflecting the UVA rays that are associated with skin cancer.
But don't breathe a sigh of relief just yet. ConsumerReports's annual sunscreen ratings found many sunblocks have a significantly lower SPF than advertised. We took the worst offenders (products whose actual SPF was less than half of what they claimed) and made this handy graphic, so you know which brands to steer clear of the next time you're shopping for sunblock.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: A Reality Check That Explains San Francisco's Housing "Crisis"
description: Why are rents in San Francisco so high? What makes them go up, and what (if anything), makes them go down? Is it the number of homes available? Is it rent control, for good or bad?
Not really. While these factors do have some effect, there's just one factor that drives the prices of housing, according to a new analysis: Jobs, and how much people are paid. When the city's wages go up, so does the cost of rent. When they drop, so do rental prices. It's almost ridiculously simple.
Eric Fischer wondered just what causes San Francisco's rentals to spike and drop, and whether today's housing crisis is actually a crisis at all or just another data point on an existing trend. His research hit a roadblock, though, because data on rental prices before 1979, when the city introduced what was to become rent control, is scarce.
Siddharth Kothari via Unsplash
So Fischer decided to gather his own data. He hit San Francisco's public libraries and copied out the prices shown in the for-rent ads in the San Francisco Chronicle, trawling through page scans and microfilm to gather 30 years of historical data, back to the 1940s. He then combined this data with that from the San Francisco Housing DataBook, which recorded, from 1979 to 2001, the median rent of a two-bedroom apartment advertised in the San Francisco Chronicle on one Sunday a year.
Fischer's blog post details his methodology. When his own data overlapped with the official data, everything matched up, which meant he was happy that both sets were valid. He then took historical data on San Francisco wage data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
The result is this graph, which shows you pretty much everything you need to know about what drives housing prices in San Francisco:
He found that the single biggest factor in housing prices is the number of jobs in the city, and the money people make from them. The housing-price booms in the late '70s and again in the 1990s almost exactly match the employment booms at the same times. And when you factor in housing inventorythat is, the number of places available to live in, the match is even better.
"When the economy booms, rents go up, and when it collapses, they go down," writes Fischer. This pattern holds for other areas too, not just SF. Here's the graph for Santa Clara County, over the same period:
So are we in a boom? Not really. As you can see, although costs today are way higher than they were back in the '50s, they have risen rather steadily, at around 6.6% per year. Adjusted for the Consumer Price Index, this is just a 2.5% per year rise, although that's still faster than wages are increasing. And this rise has stayed constant, year after year, through rent control and through San Francisco's ever-stricter building regulations
Of course, there is one other factor affecting housing coststhe availability of housing. The reason it makes little difference in SF is because there really isn't much new housing, ever. And Fischer has data for this too.
Take an other look at the last graph, showing the advertised monthly rent back to the 1940s. You can see the trend is actually dropping fast for the first few years. What, asked Fischer, happened to stop prices from dropping? "The most obvious explanation is that that was when San Francisco ran out of large tracts of vacant land," he writes.
San Francisco's post-earthquake housing was built in a series of booms. The biggest were the immediate post-earthquake rebuilding from 1906 through 1918, when essentially all of the densest areas of the city were built, and then the transportation-led boom from 1919 through 1934, when the Marina, the Outer Richmond, West Portal, the Parkside, and the Outer Mission were built. From 1935 to 1943, the Central Sunset and Parkmerced filled in. From 1944 to 1954, the Outer Sunset and Ocean View were built. And that was essentially the end of the easily developed greenfield housing.
So we're back to wages and jobs. The problem is that, while housing inequality isn't getting any worse (despite what we may think, the highest, 95th percentile rents are, and pretty much always have been, just 2.2 times the median rent), income equality is getting worse.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Set-Point Theory: The Fat-Loss Secret No One Talks About
description: Ive been journalingsomewhat consistentlysince second grade. While unpacking boxes after a recent move, I found an entry from 1991 (I was 9) that read: I dont have to always fit into big pants.I was that guy. The chubby guy who needed his pants tailored for his Bar Mitzvah because they didnt make suits for young men with a waist so big and height so restricted. Now here I am, still not so tall, but Im much more fit and determined to help others overcome the same battles I once fought.
If my story sounds clich, well, it is. But its not too good to be true. The part missing from the fast-forwarded version is that I struggled with weight loss and body image for years. Id go as far as telling people I was allergic to chlorine to keep my t-shirt on in the pool. (Ill never understand how I thought this explanation would work. Its not like the shirt protected my skin from the water, but I digress )
My ultimate success was a byproduct of many (many) failures and learning how to overcome times of despair and lost hope. I shifted away from gimmick diets and four-week plans and focused on blocking out my negative thoughts and becoming happier with who I was. Once that happened, I could finally focus on building a realistic weight-loss plan for my body.
You can transform your body. Most people just do it the wrong way. Too fast. Too impatient. Too generalized. And too unrealistic.
Its the same approach Ive used to coach hundreds of overweight people to better health and more happiness. But it all starts with believing one simple truth that's starting to feel more like myth than reality: You can transform your body. Most people just do it the wrong way. Too fast. Too impatient. Too generalized. And too unrealistic.
Ive worked with clients who have lost 100 to 200 pounds. And most of the time, it happens over the course of three to five years, not three to five episodes on a television show. At least, thats the case for those who successfully keep the weight off.
This is an especially important point, because some research (and recent media coverage) is twisted to suggest that long-term weight loss is hopeless. While many people do, in fact, regain lost weight, its not because dropping fat is mission impossible. Instead, it starts with changing your definition of success, setting aside instant gratification, and understanding how weight loss actually works.
Weight-Loss Dreams vs. Reality
First, some bad news: All nutritional approaches or diet plans stop working at some point. Weight loss stops. You dont see changes, and you believe that either you or the plan are no longer functioning.
The good news: When it appears to stop working, its actually still working.
Confused? Stay with me and itll make more sense.
We know that as you lose weight, your metabolism tends to slow downalthough its not absolute. (This research reviewed 71 studies and didnt find a significant drop in metabolism.) We also know that if youre patient about it (say, focus on losing one to two pounds per week at most), then youre more likely to keep it off for good. But most people quit before significant weight loss occurs. It usually looks something like this:
The thing is, steps two and three (stalled progress) are often an important part of the weight-loss process. Dropping one to two pounds per week is considered healthy, but its also the average. That means you might lose four pounds one week and zero the next. On those weeks, when the scale doesnt change, its not necessarily a sign that your body has reached its weight-loss limit.To put it another way, your plateau is a normal and necessary part of the process. You must stall in order to move forward (again). And when you understand whyor more importantly, accept this realityit changes everything.
Ready for the Big Weight-Loss Secret?
Your body does not like change. I dont care who you are; its very resistant to anything that takes it out of its comfort zone (a.k.a. homeostasis). When that change occursspecifically when you try to lose weightyour body does everything in its power to get you back to normal. This is a process known as set-point theory.
If more people understood that stagnation is an expected and natural part of the weight-loss process, then they wouldnt quit prematurely.
If you ask me, set-point theory is the reason why so many people fail on long-term weight-loss goals. If more people understood that stagnation is an expected and natural part of the process, then they wouldnt quit prematurely. Sometimes the scale isnt moving simply because your body is adjusting to change.
Heres how it works: We all have a normal body weight. Whether we like that weight or not is a different story, but this is the weight that weve come to accept as our own. We also have a look we desire, whether its your college weight, your pre-baby body, or where you were that one time you got super fit a few years ago.
Your mind wants to achieve your goals, but your body wants to cling to whats familiar. So when you try to change, physiological reactions occur to suck you back into the body youve known for so long.
The more weight you lose, the harder your body works to resist that change, or even pull you back to your old weight. It does this by slowing your metabolism (comparatively) and increasing your hunger. Sucks, right?
Its not all doom and gloom. If you can hang in there and resist the urge to quit, these changes are temporary and can help ease the permanence of your weight loss.
Set points are not carved in stone. You can undo the process by changing your body and then allowing your body to adjust. This is why plateaus can be so deceiving. Your body is just adapting to its new reality. Once it does, thats when youre ready to take the next jump and see a "whoosh" of new weight loss.
Everyones set point is a little different, so theres not one hard rule for how long you have to wait. The more weight you have to lose (say, more than 50 pounds), the quicker it can happen initially without hitting your set point. But if you want to lose closer to 15 or 20 pounds, you might hit a wall after the first 10. This is why so many magazine cover lines read How to Lose the Last 10 Lbs. They should really say, How to Be Patient After You Lose the First 10 Lbs. But that doesnt sound as sexy.
Once you hit your set point, your body likely needs about four to eight weeks to adjust to your new weight. Then youll establish a new set point, and your body will respond like thats your new normal. It doesnt sound that exciting, but its better than you think.
If you go from 200 to 180 pounds or 150 to 130 pounds and wait out the set-point process, your bodys drive to move back to the old weight has changed. It becomes much easier to stay at your current weight because your body no longer thinks its outside its comfort zone. This is when youre able to start losing weight again.
Long-term fat loss never occurs in 30 days or anything magical. It's a process. Almost any plan can deliver the quick results. Ignore those. Instead, focus on what you think you can do for six to 12 months. When you do, you wont be as frustrated when you hit the set point. Instead, youll be buying timenot buying a new approach (literally)until the weight loss starts again.
Adam Bornstein is a New York Times best-selling author and the founder of Born Fitness, a company on a mission to cut through the noise and share what you need to know to live a healthy, happy life. He extends that mission even further as Greatests Naked Truth columnist. Learn more on his profile page or follow BornFitness on Facebook.
This article was written by Adam Bornstein from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Scientists Can Now "Paint" Designs Onto Animal Fur Using Genetics
description: Genetic engineering can now be used to add custom graphics to an animal fur or to change the color of its coat entirely. The newly patented process could, says MIT Technology Review senior editor Antonio Regalado, be used to add barcodes to cattle or create dalmatians with some truly bizarre spots.
The method comes from a company called AgGenetics and was invented in an idle moment by founder James West. AgGenetics' regular business is creating white Angus cattle that won't feel heat stress when bred in hot, sunny environments.
1stphoto via Shutterstock
West's method uses a genetic tool from DuPont, called Cre-Lox, which adds a gene to an animal's DNA that remains inactive until it comes into contact with an enzyme. Cre-Lox doesn't do anything itself. It is a trigger and can be attached to other genes in order to switch them on, permanently and at will.
West hit upon the idea of using Cre-Lox to switch on a gene that turns hair black. By painting the enzyme onto the fur of an animal, its color is changed at the genetic level. The work isn't actually done with a brush. Instead, a needle is used to "tattoo" the enzyme into each hair follicle, switching it over to produce black hair from then on.
Combined with West's white Angus cattle, this technology could be used to tattoo scannable bar codes onto the flanks of the beasts, and those codes could not be erased.
And lest you thought that genetics was a wholly serious business, you should take a look at possibly the best part of the whole storythis paragraph from Regalado's article:
Not everyone thinks coloring-book animals are a worthwhile endeavor. "This is dumb," says Scott Fahrenkrug, the founder of Recombinetics, a company engineering cattle using new gene-editing techniques. His company managed to make dairy cows without horns, which they usually have. He says if you want to put a logo on the side of a dog it might be easier to use hair dye.
Of course, it's genetics, and the need to have the genes inserted before birth rules out this kind of "therapy" as a way to color our gray hair back to black when we get old.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Proactive Strategies For Cities To Embrace And Amplify Urbanpreneurs
description: One of my favorite ways for cities, especially historically large cities, to support the growth of entrepreneurship and innovation inside the city limits is to invest in the idea of an innovation district. Barcelona, my adopted home, was one of the first cities in the world to recognize the potential to transform formerly industrial and low-value (sometimes even abandoned) land into hubs for the various actors found in vibrant entrepreneurial ecosystems. In Barcelona the innovation district, called 22@, represents 200 hectares of transformed land into a modern, cool, innovation hub which houses R&D activity for multinationals as well as thousands of startups. Cheap land, big-time investment in high band-width telecom infrastructure, incentives for startups to locate there and of course a health dose of incubators, accelerators, and other entrepreneurial support agencies. Mayors from around the world have come to Barcelona to learn from the 22@ story, and in many cases, such as Boston and Buenos Aires, to implement their own innovation districts based on adapted insights from 22@.
Lodimup via Shutterstock
Until recently, I thought that innovation district really only made sense in larger cities that have vacant land and already have significant traction in entrepreneurship, but just currently scattered throughout a city. Then I learned of Chattanooga's efforts to grow its own innovation district. With a population of less than 200,000 and a legacy of industrial activity which, like most cities large and small, has declined substantially in recent decades, Chattanooga was facing an uphill battle to attract and retain young innovators. The city dedicated a 140-acre section of the formerly industrial area of downtown Chattanooga for the creation of an innovation district. Spurred on by the creation of 9,000 miles of a high-speed fiber network (a la Kansas City and Barcelona) Chattanooga is making the most of its resources.
Nine_Tomorrows via Shutterstock
STEM, STEAM, and ESTEAM Education
Urban innovation experts increasingly recognize that cities of the 21st century can no longer rely on top-down governance approaches to city transformation. Increasingly, cities are finding ways to engage citizens, not just in consultations on plans, but in the co-creation of solutions to make the city more sustainable. I refer to this as Smart Cities 3.0.
Yet, how can cities shift to more reliance on citizens if the local school system is failing to educate future generations in ways that allow them to become active innovators in their community? In the late 1990s a concept called STEM emerged as a solution to this gap. STEM stands for science, technology, engineering and math, and the idea was to create special skills dedicated to providing students with the foundations required to become innovators in an increasingly complex, and sophisticated (and technology-enabled or driven) economy. STEM has been embraced as an education framework around the globe. Yet in recent years, many initiatives have been introduced to expand our thinking on what are the actual critical skills required of future innovators. Relatedly, educators and innovation experts recognized that students need more than the deep "hard skills" of the STEM curriculum but creativity through the arts may also be important to blend in to the educational framework.
This is part of series of articles based on The Emergence of the Urban Entrepreneur, by Boyd Cohen and Pablo Muoz, with a foreword by Richard Florida. It will be published in May.
So, STEM shifted to STEAM. Yet there has been another recent addition to STEM that is really intriguing. Adding entrepreneurship to the equation creates ESTEAM: Entrepreneurship, Science, Technology, Arts and Math. I recently wrote about the role that collision density plays in facilitating frequent interactions between diverse stakeholders in urban innovation ecosystems. ESTEAM education programs facilitate a key blend of diverse skills between students to allow them to become important contributors to that collision density as they grow up. Some cities have managed to blend innovation districts and ESTEAM education by supporting an inclusive approach to educating local residents (in or near the innovation district) of diverse economic backgrounds. This integration can support future employability of youth with innovation district firms or perhaps be creators of new enterprises as well. Medellin (Colombia) is one such city actively looking to embrace inclusivity through such ESTEAM programs while growing a new innovation district (Ruta N).
pio3 via Shutterstock
Embrace the Sharing Economy
Because cities are more densely populated and frequently have high penetration rates of GPS-enabled smart phones, cities have become the primary source of growth of the sharing economy. But embracing sharing in cities goes beyond peer to peer sharing of under-utilized resources. Business to crowd sharing solutions are also emerging in cities and are playing a big role in enabling the growing masses of urbanpreneurs. Coworking spaces help indie urbanpreneurs gain affordable access to office space along with excellent support networks for supporting more "collisions." Shared kitchens give aspiring foodie entrepreneurs access to high quality commercial kitchens for low-cost experimentation. Fab labs give aspiring makers access to 3-D printers, lasers, other tools, and of course other makers for creating new local products. Fab City is a concept that is emerging as an idea to convert cities into distributed maker spaces for "hacking the city." Instead of one fab lab in a city, the Fab City concept is encouraging the growth of fab labs in neighborhoods throughout the city. With city support, such an approach would allow neighborhood-based civic entrepreneurs to create hyperlocal solutions to challenges in their community.
SvedOliver via Shutterstock
Smaller Cities
But this doesn't have to just exist in thriving metropolises. I believe small cities should also embrace the sharing economy. But instead of relying only on high-dense transactions and private business to crowd initiatives, small cities may need to take a more proactive role in financing and supporting the introduction of things like coworking spaces and fab labs. And because the density of many smaller cities may not be enough to support the collision density and vibrant startup rates of larger cities (which is often what is attracting the younger innovation generation), smaller cities may need to explore a sharing region strategy. Smaller cities can consider themselves part of a region which may have a collection of smaller cities who can collaborate in interconnecting activities and resources that could be attractive to certain types of urbanpreneurs.
Many urbanpreneurs are leveraging digital technology to work with local and global collaborations and clients, suggesting that some percentage of urbanpreneurs are not directly dependent on being located in a large (and super expensive) city. Smaller cities should leverage this inherent benefit to attract such urbanpreneurs by collaborating with regional partners to invest in co-working spaces, even co-living spaces (housing coops) and of course high-speed bandwidth infrastructure. Some regions are also blessed with more natural beauty and access to outdoor activities (e.g. skiing, hiking, etc.) than their larger peers. This can also be used to attract urbanpreneurs who value easy access to these activities.
Since smaller cities frequently have fewer human, financial, and infrastructure resources of the larger cities, and lower densities overall, they must adapt their strategies to take advantage of what they do have. For example, many smaller cities have a much more affordable cost of living than the larger cities. The super cities like New York, San Francisco, London, Hong Kong, and Tokyo are attracting thousands of younger people on an annual basis in search of better opportunities. But their cost of living is becoming increasingly prohibitive for many of this generation. Small cities may be able to pick up the slack.
sashartua via Shutterstock
The massive urban migration we are experiencing in recent decades has created a global competition for (mostly younger) innovation talent. Like the overall population, entrepreneurs too are migrating to cities. But which cities they migrate depends on what kind of resources and collisions the city offers for aspiring urbanpreneurs. Innovation districts, strong education programs, and a vibrant sharing economy are tools cities can leverage to attract and retain urbanpreneurs. Executed properly, these initiatives can also support an inclusive approach to citizen co-creation towards a more livable and vibrant city.
This article was written by Boyd Cohen from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Barcelona's New, Huge "Superblocks" Are Designed To Stop Traffic, Fight Pollution
description: In 2017, Barcelona will start converting itself into a pedestrian city: Inside grids of "superblocks," non-resident cars will be banned, and what used to be heavily trafficked intersections will turn into pedestrian-friendly city squares. Throughout the city, most traffic will be eliminated from 60% of roads.
"The superblocks are intended to put an end to the predominance of the car in the streets, taking away road space and returning it to pedestrians," says Irene Capdevila from the city's environmental agency. "They lead to a decrease in traffic that will certainly be visible in terms of air pollution or noise."
Ajuntament de Barcelona
In a superblock, several city blocks are joined together, and traffic is re-routed around the outside. Inside, pedestrians and cyclists have priority on the road, while residents of the blocks can drive at a slow speed. Neighborhoods that once had little green space will be filled with mini-parks and gardens.
"Turning the streets into spaces for citizens enables new uses and rights in them: trade, culture and knowledge, expression and participation, and leisure, in addition to a passageway," Capdevila says.
The city added its first superblocks in 2003 in the Grcia neighborhood, but it's only now that the concept is spreading broadly.
For several years, the air in Barcelona has been so polluted that it breaks WHO limits for safety; an estimated 3,500 people die early each year in the metropolitan area from breathing in the smog and particulate matter. In response, the city approved an urban mobility plan in 2015 that will spread pedestrian-friendly areas across the entire width of the city, and they plan to spend 10 million to implement it.
The first new neighborhood to get superblocks, Eixample, was originally designed in the mid-1800s to improve health and sanitationbut now is choked with traffic and pollution. Designed in a simple grid, the neighborhood can easily be sectioned off: nine blocks will become one pedestrianized superblock, with 160 intersections inside converted to city squares. The amount of usable public space will increase by amazing 268%.
Ajuntament de Barcelona
To help people get around without their cars, the city is expanding bike lanes (from 62 miles today to 186 miles). An existing network of public electric bikes helps with hills. The city also rearranged bus stops, so every resident is no more than 250 meters from a stop.
The new bus network is also faster to ride. "By circulating only on basic roads, the speed can be higher," says Capdevila. "The bus lines are divided into horizontal, vertical and diagonal, and the idea is that you can reach any point of the city with only [one] change of buses at most, so that the bus network can be perceived just as the subway network."
The city has advised otherslike Quito, Ecuadorto implement superblocks of their own. Capdevila says the idea could work anywhere. "While the plot of Eixample, in a grid, makes it ideal for deployment, superblocks can be adapted to any urban fabric."
All Images: via Ajuntament de Barcelona
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Mapping America's Shrinking Middle Class
description: The middle class, long a bedrock of the American economy, is contracting. In most metropolitan areas, there are now fewer people living in middle-income households compared with the year 2000, and more people living in both poorer and richer ones. The fabled American middle now barely represents a majority of the overall population (51%).
A new analysis from Pew Research looks at households in 229 metropolitan areas, representing about three-quarters of the population. The middle class share fell in 203 places. The share of people in the upper-income bracket rose in 172 places, while the share classed at low income rose in 160 metros.
(Your browser doesn't support iframe)Pew defines middle income as between $42,000 to $125,000 a year for a household of three, low income as below $42,000, and upper income as above $125,000. It notes that the declining middle is not all bad news. In places like Midland, Texas, the middle-income share has fallen 53% to 43%, but the share of households on upper incomes has expanded from 18% to 37%.
But Pew's analysis is mostly a less-than-happy one. Nationwide, median incomes for U.S. households were down 8% in 2014 compared to 1999, showing how many people are doing worse than at the turn of the century. Across all areas, including the metros in the latest analysis, the share of people in the low-income brackets rose from 28% to 29%.
"The decline of the middle class is a reflection of rising income inequality in the U.S.," says Pew. "Generally speaking, middle-class households are more prevalent in metropolitan areas where there is less of a gap between the incomes of households near the top and the bottom ends of the income distribution. The middle-class share decreased more in areas with a greater increase in income inequality."
See more from the report here.
Cover Photo: marchello74 via Shutterstock
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Reinventing The Vending Machine With Healthy, Local Food
description: If your company can't afford a Google-sized kitchen that doles out free snacks, you might be stuck with an ancient vending machine full of dusty candy bars. But a new startup is trying to offer a better option: fresh food, made by local vendors, tailored to what employees actually want to eat.
"Ninety-nine percent of all offices don't have fresh food on site," says Megan Mokri, founder of Byte Foods, the San Francisco-based startup. "There's this pretty significant disconnect between people now shopping at Whole Foods and other high-quality grocers and then going to work, and their food's stuck in 1982. If they're lucky, they've got a vending machine, or maybe there's a [food truck] or vendor with the same menu day in and day out."
While running a previous meal delivery company, and as a student at the University of California-Berkeley's Haas School of Business, Mokri and her cofounder realized that new technology could offer offices something different.
Byte's small fridges, loaded with locally made salads, cold-pressed juices, sandwiches, and coffee from local favorite Blue Bottle, are accessed with the swipe of a credit card. When someone takes out a snack, the fridge tracks each purchase.
Unlike a vending machine, where candy bars might stay in place for as long as a year, the fresh foods Byte offers sometimes have a shelf life of as little as two days. "The big piece that allows us to do this is that we have data," says Mokri. "We have data on what people are buying and when. We have data on the shelf life of every single item in every single fridge that we operate, and we have real-time inventory data."
With the data, the company is able to tailor the contents of each fridge for each location. So far, Byte works with more than 150 offices in the Bay Area, including CBS, Autodesk, SolarCity, and the San Francisco SPCA. They focus on organizations that don't otherwise offer employees stacks of free snacks.
"There's a plethora of options for companies that fully subsidize food for employees, but for those that don't have the budget, that's really where we see the greenfield opportunity," she says. "Tech companies are not a core client base, which might sound funny, being in the heart of San Francisco, but that certainly is the case."
Byte plans to expand to more major metropolitan areas. "Really any place that has a good prevalence of Whole Foods is a good place for Byte to be," Mokri says.
All Photos: via Byte Foods
Related Video: 11 Foods to eat for a healthier more productive you(Your browser doesn't support iframe)
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Cities Woefully Unprepared for Rising Disaster Risk
description: By Laurie Goering, Thompson Reuters Foundation
Cities around the world are failing to plan for fast-increasing risks from extreme weather and other hazards, particularly as population growth and surging migration put more people in the path of those threats, the World Bank said.
By 2050, 1.3 billion people and $158 trillion in assets will be menaced by worsening river and coastal floods alone, warned a new report from the Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery (GFDRR), managed by the World Bank.
"Cities and coastal areas are woefully unprepared for the kind of climate and disaster risk now facing our world," said John Roome, the World Bank Groups senior director for climate change.A man pushes his bicycle cart through waist-deep flooding caused by typhoon Linfa at Longos town in Malabon city, north of Manila July 6, 2015.
Credit:REUTERS/Romeo Ranoco
But as cities expand and revamp, they have the opportunity to lower that risk by putting in place more resilient infrastructure and preventive policies, he said.
Those could include everything from restrictions on using too much groundwater
one of the reasons cities from Tokyo to Jakarta are sinking
to planning for more green space, and new schools and apartments set above flood-prone zones.
The problem is that many city officials have no clear idea of the range of disaster risks they face and how serious they could be. Argentina, for instance, has no volcanoes but is affected at times by ash from eruptions in Chile.
And when Malawi was hit by an earthquake in 2009, it came as a surprise. "Not many people think about the African continent and its potential for earthquakes," said Alanna Simpson, a risk management specialist with the GFDRR.
No PhD? Help At Hand
A new open-source disaster risk management tool, called ThinkHazard!, aims to make planning for such threats easier by pulling together information on all potential disaster risks in a country or region, and how they compare.
It looks at hazards including floods, cyclones, droughts, heat waves, fires, earthquakes, tsunamis, volcanic eruptions and landslides.
The tool, aimed at national and city planners, project developers and others, also offers advice on what might work to reduce the risks.
While information on disaster risks already exists, it tends to be in scattered locations and jargon-heavy language, Simpson said.
For an average planner, "you need a PhD to understand if a country has risk and how it might affect your project", she told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.
The new tool, developed by the GFDRR, brings the information together and simplifies it, so that the developer of a road or school in Kenya, for instance, can get a sense of the level of risks their project faces - including threats they may not know about.
Those can be substantial, the disaster experts noted. In Indonesia, the risk of flooding from overflowing rivers is expected to grow 166 percent over the next 30 years, while coastal flooding risk could rise 445 percent, the report said.
Nepal's capital Kathmandu is expected to see a 50 percent rise in earthquake risk by 2045 as more slums and informal buildings go up.
A combination of sea-level rise and sinking of coastal cities
including from excessive extraction of the groundwater beneath them
could drive disaster losses in 136 coastal cities from $6 billion a year in 2010 to $1 trillion a year by 2070, the report said.
But planning now for more big typhoons in Manila, for example, by ensuring new homes are not built on flood plains and keeping drainage canals clear, will pay off, the experts said.
"The decisions we make today are defining the disasters of tomorrow," said Francis Ghesquiere, head of the GFDRR secretariat.
"We have a huge challenge
but also a huge opportunity
to try to make sure the trillions of dollars that will go into new housing, new infrastructure, the extension of cities... do not increase risk exposure but rather reduce it."
Reporting by Laurie Goering; editing by Megan Rowling
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: How to Foam Roll Like a Pro
description: Sore, stiff, tight? We feel you. Take some time for self-massage. Used pre-workout, pre-stretching, or simply to start the day, foam rolling has serious benefits, including easing muscle soreness, correcting muscle imbalance, increasing range of motion, and preventing injury.
Some gyms have foam rollers, but it might be worth investing in your own. (Theyre still way cheaper than a professional massage!) Rollers vary in size, firmness, and shape. Long rollers provide more area for stability and support, while shorter options are more versatile and convenient for travel. A soft foam provides a gentler massage than a high-density version. Some options include a grid-like design or a ridged surface, which helps target tough-to-relieve knots and trigger points.
When you get rolling, spend about 60 seconds on each tight area. Use as much or as little pressure as feels comfortable for you. If you find a knot or sensitive spot, linger on it for a little while, rolling back and forth until the tenderness eases. Ten to 15 minutes per day is all it takes the reap the benefits. Trust us, your body will thank you.
Ready to roll? Heres how:Originally posted July 2012. Updated May 2016.
This article was written by The Greatist Team from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Global Warming Will Hit Poorer Countries Hardest
description: By Fiona Harvey, The Guardian
New evidence that poorer countries will suffer the worst effects of climate change has shown that the number of hot days in tropical developing countries is likely to increase markedly as global warming takes hold.Solomon Islands is under threat from sea level rise.
Credit: simonag/flickr
It has long been expected that poor people would bear the brunt of climate change, largely because so many more of the worlds poorest live in tropical latitudes whereas, wealthier people tend to live in more temperate regions.
This is inverse to the generally accepted responsibility for climate change, whichfalls mainly on rich countriesthat benefited early on from industry, and thus have historically high emissions, compared with poorer countries that have only begun catching up in the past few decades.
It was oniy in 2014 that China'sper capita emissionscaught up with those of people in the E.U.,even after years of above-average economic growth in China.
Those living in the poorest countries also have the most to lose, as so many depend on agriculture, which is likely to be badly affected by temperature rises and an increase in droughts, heatwaves and potential changes to rainfall that may lead to recurrent patterns of floods, droughts and higher intensity storms.
The study, led by theUniversity of East Anglia, is the first to examine the link between cumulative carbon dioxide emissions and more frequent hot days.
Manoj Joshi of the UEA School of Environmental Sciences said: Many of the poorest people in the world live in tropical latitudes, while many of the worlds wealthiest people live in mid-latitude climates. We know that low-latitude regions have much less variability in day-to-day temperatures when compared with the mid-latitudes, which means the signal of climate change emerges quite quickly, and because of this the frequency of extreme hot days increases rapidly too.Majuro, capital of the Marshall Islands, is an atoll in the Pacific Ocean. It is home to about 30,000 people.
Credit:Christopher Michel/flickr
The findings also call into question the commitments made at thelandmark Paris conferenceon climate change last December,at which nations agreed to limit global temperature rises to no more than 2C, a threshold which scientists regard as the limit of safety, beyond which the ravages of climate change are likely to become catastrophic and irreversible.
However a 2C rise on average globally could still leave tens or hundreds of millions of people vulnerable to dramatic rises in their regional temperatures, which could make their current way of living impossible to maintain.
Governments are meetingthis week in Bonn, the first meeting since the Paris agreement was signed.
Reprinted with permission from The Guardian.
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Avocados Finally Get the Slow Jam They Deserve
description: Avocados are nature's Klondike barwe'd do just about anything to get our hands on one. While our love for avocados is nearly limitless, its nothing compared to musician Keanu Trees's affection. He really earns the title avocad-bro with this slow-jam ode to our favorite fruit (yes, it's a fruit).
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Is the Type of Person You Should Be Dating (It's Science!)
description: Whether or not we like to admit it, most of us have a type. As this video from Bustle explains, our types are determined by lot more than physical characteristics. One theory is that our brain chemistry affects whom we're attracted to. Researchers organized our types into four categories based on what kind of chemical we express the most:
Dopamine: Explorers (risky and impulsive)
Serotonin: Builders (calm and community oriented)
Testosterone: Directors (analytical and tough minded)
Estrogen: Negotiators (positive and empathetic)
If you're an explorer, chances are you're attracted to other explorers. Same goes for builders. Directors tend to be attracted to negotiators since they balance each other out. But it's not exactly that simple. There are also other factors (hello, emotional needs!) at play.
Tired of your type? It's not all bad news. Think of your love life like a fairy talehow did it begin, who were the characters, why didn't it end happily ever after?so you can try to figure out the pattern that didn't work and avoid it next time.
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Woman Was Body Shamed for Wearing a Perfectly Normal Tank Top to the Gym
description: No one should be shamed for what they wear while exercising. It's hard enough to muster the motivation to yank on workout clothes and actually head to the gym.
But that's exactly what happened to Jenna Vecchio. (Unfortunately, she wasn't the first person to be publicly shamed in a gym this week.) A supervisor at Movati Athletic in Ottawa, Canada, said her tank top made fellow gym goers and staff uncomfortable because it was too revealing. The crazy thing? Her black tank top looked like every other racerback tank you've seen. Check it out for yourself:Photos: Jenna Vecchio/FacebookVecchio was rightfully outraged and posted this message on Facebook:
I am a member of Movati Athletic Club in Orleans, ON. Today I was instructed by a supervisor at the club that my tank top was inappropriate dress and is offensive to both the staff and other members. That at Movati they have a dress code stating only appropriate gym attire and modest clothing is to be worn. I will start by saying my tank top was no different than many other women's tank tops at the club, except my chest size is much larger in appearance in comparison to my frame than many of the other women. After asking every woman at the club whom I could find on the way out if my attire offended them and they responded no, it became clear that the only ones offended were the two women supervisors working at the club today. I pointed out to them that my shirt was no different than any other woman's shirt. They informed me that it did not matter, that due to my chest size I could not wear a tank top. I felt humiliated and discriminated against due to my figure. I was singled out, and it is unfair to say I cannot wear a tank top and other women can! Different figures means different rules? I would like to bring this out to the public! If tank tops are not allowed at the gym for me because of my chest size then all women should not be allowed to wear tank tops regardless of size.
The athletic club stood by its decision in a statement to BuzzFeed Canada, saying Vecchio was "dressed inconsistently with [their] code of conduct" and claiming the photos she posted on social media were more modest than she appeared at the gym. They also said the shirt wasn't the issue; it was her "lack of coverage."
The irony here: The gym's tagline is "Feel welcome, feel healthy, feel comfortable." If only the gym could practice what it preached.
This article was written by Heidi Pashman from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: See Why You Should Never Take Health Advice From Instagram Celebs
description: We have to laugh at this video by Buzzfeedotherwise we'd cry. It hilariously cuts to the heart of a problem that's older than the Internet: There are a lot of snake oil salesmen and women out there, especially in the health industry. Now thanks to social media, they can peddle their crap to a larger audience than ever before. You'll be chuckling through the absurd one-liners and the LOL-worthy runs to the bathroom, but don't forget the important message: Seek out experts for your health advice, not just whoever has the most followers on Instagram.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: PornHub Is Making a Fitbit for Your Sex Life
description: Well damn. Weve got to give credit where credit is due, and this ad for BangFitbasically a Fitbit for your sex life created by the great minds at PornHubis hilarious. Can you imagine competing against your friends and their partners to see who gets the best workout during sex?
Guys have to strap the BangFit band (it looks like a cross between a fanny pack and a wrestling belt with a compartment for your smartphone) around their waist before they get hot and heavy. The app scores sexercizes based on how well you perform them, so you can brag about how healthy your sex life is on social media.
With a fully functioning website, BangFit could be the future of health-conscious sex. But since the band is sold out, were more inclined to believe that this is just an exceptionally smart marketing stunt. But that doesn't mean companies like Fitbit and Jawbone (an appropriate name) can't use it as inspiration for future products.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Dads Dancing With Their Babies Is the Definition of Cuteness Overload
description: Dancing is already a great workout. Add a baby carrier (and a baby) to the mix and youve reached peak cuteness while breaking a sweat. Thats why we cant stop smiling at this video from a Mommy Mingle, Daddy Dance class in San Diego. These fathers are showcasing some serious dad movesin the best way possibleas they line dance to Play That Funky Music.
This article was written by Jeff Cattel from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This New Smoothie Trend Is Beautiful but a Complete Waste of Time
description: Smoothies are a beautiful thing. You toss everything into a mixer, hit blend, wait two minutes, and end up with a refreshing meal or snack. Leave it to Instagram foodies to complicate the process by creating smoothie stacks, which layer multiple smoothies on top of each other (the one above is a twist on Neapolitan ice cream).
Sure, the food trend is fun to look at, but who has time to make all the different smoothies required for one of these monsters? We don't. And even if we did, we wouldn't want to clean our Vitamix again and again. If youre in it for the likes, go ahead and layer up. Were sticking to ogling the prettiest ones on Instagram:
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Why This Artist Trained A Team Of French Poodles To Pull An Inuit Sled Through Paris
description: Last November, as world leaders met in Paris to hammer out an agreement on climate change, Inuit hunters from Greenlanddressed in furs and seal skins , and with a traditional sledwalked through the city, posing by landmarks. Later, just outside the city, a team of seven French poodles pulled the sled down a garden path.
Artist Mel Chin, who planned the event, wanted to visually conflate the Arctic and Paris to make the point that what happens in the Arctic affects the rest of the world. "The life threatening, sweltering summers experienced in Paris, the Syrian drought that destroyed the agricultural economy and sparked its violent crisis, and the increase of flooding and tornado activity in the U.S. are not flukes but effects of Arctic climate destabilization," he says.
(Your browser doesn't support iframe)The poodles stood in as a symbol of Franceand Chin thought that having them pull a sled down Paris streets (with carefully hidden wheels, due to the lack of snow) would bring attention to the Inuit leaders' message in a way that speeches might not.
Training poodles to pull a sled was trs difficile. "It is not something they do naturally," he says. "I brought in an exceptional French dog trainer, Catherine Collignon, who 'interviewed' each dog for compatibility, looks, and strength, then put them through a rigorous schedule that left trainer and dogs exhausted each evening."
Just as filming was set to begin, the Paris attacks shut down the city. So Chin chose to photograph the hunters with landmarks, and move the dogs to the countryside nearby.
In a Kickstarter campaign, Chin is raising funds to finish a short film about the event. "I really wanted to make something that would extend beyond the Paris COP21 conference," he says. "A film can have its own lifeit can travel around the world quickly, it can catch the attention of people with its unusual imagery and powerful, sobering message, can be seen in a short time, shared, used in classrooms to spark discussion." He is also creating a website, The Arctic Is.
As he says in the campaign video, the Arctic is everywhere: The Arctic is Paris, the Arctic is Des Moines, the Arctic is Damascus. "The writer, Gretel Ehrlich, talks about the Arctic driving the climate of the temperate worldwhat happens there affects us all," he says.
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Google's Gigapixel Art Camera Captured Every Detail Of These Masterpieces
description: Google has a new camera, and like everything Google does, it's big. Really big, although not in the way you might think. It's Google's new Art Camera, a portable camera made to capture gigapixel-resolution images of paintings, prints, and drawings, with a detail so fine you can see the texture of individual brush strokes on a canvas, or even the imperfections in the stitches that make up that canvas.
"Zooming into these images," says Google Cultural Institute engineer Ben St. John in a blog post, "is the closest thing to walking up to the real thing with a magnifying glass."
Gigapixel images are built rather than captured whole. The camera moves incrementally, capturing a patchwork of images while zoomed in, and the images are stitched together to make one image of a billion pixels. "You need time, highly specialized and expensive equipment, and only a few people in the world can do the job," says St. John. "In the first five years of the Google Cultural Institute, we've been able to share about 200 gigapixel images."
So Google did what it always does. It automated the procedure. The new Art Camera reduces the time taken to capture an artwork from one day down to less than an hour. In addition, the camera is more portable, meaning that it can be easily sent on tour and used by museums and galleries around the world to digitize their artworks. Google is sending out 20 of these cameras, free, to do the job.
Seeing an artwork on the screen isn't as good as seeing it in real life, but it's certainly better than not seeing it at all, or seeing a crappy, low-res web image with the colors all wrong. And the museums also benefit, because they now have a copy that can be used for study and that functions as a kind of body-double for the original, allowing anyone to get in really close without any risk of damage.
Google has just made available the first 1,000 works from its collection in a project called the Google Cultural Institute. You can browse by collections, which organizes the works by physical location, or you can dig in by artist, media type, date, and other parameters. And of course, because it's Google, you can also search. Pro tip: try it on a device with a hi-res Retina display, like an iPad. The detail really is incredible. Check it out, but bewareyou might lose half a day to this thing.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Australia Will Pump Herpes Into Rivers To Unleash "Carp-aggedon"
description: Australia is planning on releasing a herpes virus into the Murray River in order to kill off an invasion by European carp. The plan, nicknamed "carp-aggedon," by science minister Christopher Pyne, will take up to three decades to reduce the carp population by 95%.
Australia has tried something similar before. In the 1950s, it introduced the myxomatosis virus to combat an exploding rabbit population. According to Wikipedia, it worked rather well, taking the estimated rabbit population down from 600 million to 100 million in just two years. "Affected rabbits," says Wikipedia, "develop skin tumors, and in some cases blindness, followed by fatigue and fever; they usually die within 14 days of contracting the disease."
Cruelty issues aside, myxomatosis had problems. Surviving rabbits bred, passing on their genetic resistance. Today, it kills only half of the rabbits it infects.
Flickr users Ketzirah Lesser & Art Drauglis
Back to the modern day, Australia plans to release the cyprinid herpesvirus-3 strain into the river in 2018. "It affects the European carp by attacking their kidneys, their skin, their gills, and stopping them breathing effectively," Pyne told Australia's ABC News. "They have the virus for a week before they show any symptoms and it suddenly kills them within 24 hours."
The virus is harmless to humans, say Pyne. Long-term effects, though, obviously will not be known until they manifest, if they ever do. Currently no other fish are know to be susceptible to the virus.
Why not unleash carp-aggedon right away? Logistics. The plan is expected to be so effective that the river will be packed with dead fish. "Suddenly, there will be literally hundreds of thousands, if not millions of tonnes of carp that will be dead in the River Murray," said Pyne.
The project will cost around $11 million, with much of that going to clean up the mess. If you live anywhere near the river, you might want to take a long vacation starting the week after the virus is introduced. Possible methods for dealing with all those fish corpses are fertilizer, mass graves, or even pet food. This last sounds like a tricky sell to pet owners.
You may be worried that this scheme isn't in the best of hands. If so, you might want to look away now, as the next part won't help your confidence. Speaking to the ABC, Matt Barwick, of the Department of Primary Industries, claims that Israelis eat carp infected with the virus, although he seems to be mixing up the actual virus and a vaccine derived therefrom:
"They treat almost all of their carp grown for human consumption with a live attenuated vaccine to this virus, which is basically a weakened version of the virus," Barwick told ABC. "So there is up to 58 million individual carp that are eaten for breakfast in Israel every day, with this virus, and there's never been a single documented human health issue."
Fifty eight million million carp for breakfast every day? Israel has a population of 8 million, whichif Barwick has been quoted correctlymeans a rather harrowing seven-carp breakfast for each and every Israeli, every single day. Possibly Barwick misspoke in his excitement over carp-aggedon.
The scheme seems destined for controversy, but these carp, introduced into the country during the 1800s and more recently brought to new hunting grounds by flooding, are destroying balanced ecosystems. If allowed to remain, the damage will likely be worse to the local environment.
Now, if you'll excuse me, I need to finish my carp and hummus breakfast. Only five more to go.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: These Donuts Can Fix Earthquake-Damaged Bridges In Days, Not Weeks
description: Earthquakes don't just wreck buildings. They smash and destabilize the infrastructure needed for rescue and for the recovery of the area afterwards. Bridges are a particular problemthey're vulnerable, and by definition, they bridge routes that are are otherwise impossible to pass. Repairing a bridge after an earthquake can take weeks of painstaking work.
A new method of bridge repair, from University of Utah professor Chris Pantelides, can cut repair time down to days.
Regular bridge repair involves a long process of inspecting the columns, and then hacking away the existing concrete to get to the rebar and steel hoops inside. The rebar is replaced, the column is wrapped in a steel cast, and new concrete is poured. It takes forever.
Pantelides's method isn't pretty, but it's fast, and the resulting structure is as strong as the original. Holes are drilled into the ground around the broken column, and rebar is glued into them. Then a thin, donut-shaped composite shell is placed around the whole lot, and concrete is poured in. In principal, it's like wrapping the broken column in gaffer tape, only the result is a lot more permanent. The donut shell itself is made from a carbon fiber-reinforced polymer that is stronger than the steel and concrete it contains.
"The circular shape gives you the best strength for the amount of material you are using," Pantelides said in a press release. "The stresses are distributed equally all around the periphery. With this method, if there are future earthquakes or aftershocks the bridge will survive and damage will happen adjacent to the donut. This gives the bridge a second life."
Even a layperson can tell that Pantelides's methodpublished this week in the American Concrete Instituteis way faster than the old way.
The method is just as suitable for other kinds of column as it is for bridge supports. Damaged buildings can be repaired, and the donuts could even be used to add extra earthquake protection to undamaged structures.
The repair can't save every bridge. If the columns are too far gone, even a stack of his donuts won't be enough, and the bridge will have to be demolished and replaced. But in the aftermath of an earthquake, his quick-fix "patches" could make a big difference to rescue operations in the disaster area.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: These Toolkits For Artists Teach How To Build Community Through Art
description: CSAs are now a hugely popular way for city dwellers to eat fresh produce and support local farmers. A few years ago, a nonprofit in Minnesota, Springboard for the Arts, thought the same concept could be applied to local art and creative projects: "It's just like a CSA, but instead of vegetables you get artwork," says executive director Laura Zabel.
Not only was the Minneapolis program successful, but community supported art packageswhere participants would buy into shares of commissioned work from local artistshave now been replicated in 60 communities around the country.
Making that possible is a platform from Springboard for the Arts called Creative Exchange, a place where artists, organizations, and cities can share "toolkits" for creative community building ideas that should spread.
"We wanted to give people the tools to make things happen in their community more quickly and give people an outlet to share ideas," says Zabel. "People are taking ideas and replicating them, or adapting them and changing them."
The platform launched two years ago. Today there are 16 toolkits that have been requested by 2,000 different communities. Most projects are at the intersection of art and community engagement, creating opportunities for people to come together and meet their neighbors in new ways.
The ideas range from whimsical to serious and ambitious. There are instructions on how to successfully launch a pop-up museum, a massive 500-plate community meal, or a "block party in a box." Some are more unusual ideas, such as the Neighborhood Postcard Project, a project that began in San Francisco in 2013 that gets strangers to send each other notes in hopes of breaking down stereotypes and tensions in a city. The newest toolkit is an entrepreneurship training program for artists.
As cities change and technology evolves, creative citizen engagement is playing an integral in community building.
"A lot of the kind of traditional institutions that used to play that role in communitieschurch and schools and large cultural institutions like theaterthey haven't really kept up with what they need to build social capital. Their role in the community has changed,' says Zabel. Traditional policy makers, she says, are also more interested in testing ideas and getting feedback directly from affected communities.
All of this translates into new roles for artists. This was evidence at the Vibrancy program, which was run by the Northeast Shores Development Corp in Cleveland and modeled on a similar project in Minnesota. Funded by the city and a foundation, the program gave small businesses grants to work with artists to attract people to the business district during a major road construction project in the dead of winter. At a locksmith, for example, an artist engraved outdated luggage locks with people's initials and put them on a chain link fence, like Paris's "love locks" on the Pont Des Arts bridge.
In total, nearly $120,000 went to 33 businesses and 255 artists in support of 52 community projects, all occurring over a 1.5-mile strip over a period of 10 months. Brian Friedman, executive director of Northeast Shores Development Group, says that they didn't lose one business during construction, the first time that's happened during a major road project in a decade. "It wasn't necessarily about what's the best art. It was about trying to bring in visitors through arts activities in the dead of winter," he says.
All Images: courtesy Creative Exchange
This article was written by Jessica Leber from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: An App That Makes It Easier For Neighbors To Help Each Other
description: If you need something in a hurrya phone charger, say, or a case of beerchances are there's a person nearby who can provide it. With Getmii, a new app, you can "broadcast your needs" to the nearest 1,000 people, and find someone willing to deliver. In return, you can barter something the other person wants, or you can pay themwhatever you negotiate in the app's chat box.
Getmii, which has been described as a "need feed" for millennials and younger, isn't a hook-up app (though it could presumably be used for that). It's more about making sharing and bartering immediate and location-based.(Your browser doesn't support iframe)"Whenever you have something that you need, you get on the loudspeaker and yell it as loudly as possible to people near you," says cofounder Max Meyer.
The app was first developed in Thailand (where Meyer has been based). It recently launched in the U.S. and already has more than 10,000 users, Meyer says, mostly on college campuses. He says the most frequently bartered items are lecture notes, though a lot of the time there's no transaction at all. It's just people meeting with people.
"We tried to not make it so transactional. It's not like TaskRabbit where they're trying to ascribe a value to a service. For our generation, that cheapens the relationship we're trying to create between two people," he says.
Aside from instant gratification, Getmii has potential in disaster or emergency situations. Last year, the Red Cross used it in Nepal to gather blood donations after the earthquake.
Download Getmii here.
All Images: via Getmii
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Ultrasonic Dryer Vibrates Clothes Dry Instead Of Blasting Them With Heat
description: A typical clothes dryer works the same way dryers have worked for decadesblowing hot air in an energy-sucking process that costs Americans $9 billion a year. A new prototype uses sound waves instead, vibrating clothes dry rather than heating them up.
Evaporating the water in clothes is energy intensive and, thus, very expensive. The vibrations still take energy to create, but much less. "You're drying it as it's cold," says Ayyoub Momen, a researcher at Oak Ridge National Laboratory who is developing the new technology. "That significantly helps improve the efficiency."(Your browser doesn't support iframe)Momen was inspired to create the new prototype one day as he watched an ultrasonic humidifier work. "I saw how much cold mist it can generate with just a little bit of energy, and that rang a bell for me," he says. "I said, well, can we apply the same physics to fabric drying?"
In their first experiment, they were able to dry a piece of fabric in a record 14 seconds. The current small prototype looks a little like a fog machine as mist billows from samples of fabric.
When the technology is scaled up to a full dryer, a load of laundry might take 20 minutes, rather than the 40-50 minutes that it might take in another dryer. Because clothes aren't blasted with heat, the researchers expect that they will also last longer. The process also minimizes lint.
It's likely to be three to five times more efficient than a typical dryer. An upgrade to dryers was long overdue; an electric dryer today might use as much energy as an efficient washing machine, dishwasher, and fridge combined.
When the EPA started giving some washing machines the Energy Star label 20 years ago, it left energy-sucking clothes dryers off the list, reasoning that all dryers were equally bad. It was only in 2014, when the first European-style heat pump dryer came to market in the U.S., that dryers were added to the Energy Star program. Heat pump dryers recapture heat, but are expensive. Ultrasonic dryers may be another alternative. The researchers are working with GE to try to bring it to market.
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Malaria Tests, Mini Tractors, Solar Air Conditioning: 10 Innovative African Startups
description: Godwin Benson first got the idea for Tuteriaa peer-to-peer learning platform in Nigeriawhen he tutored a couple of kids near where he lives in Lagos. He taught math for three months and realized there was pent-up demand for one-on-one learning in the city. The parent who hired him never paid his bill. But, before finding Benson, he had looked for a tutor for two months, and other parents were doing the same.
Now 26, Benson has since signed up about 6,000 tutors to his platform, which helps match students with extra help they might be looking for. Math is the most popular subject, but you can also find tutors for languages, exam prep and plenty
of non-academic subjects like cooking and sewing.
"It helps the traditional educational system," he says. "Many people realize that general classes can help people get an overview of the concepts, but, to really understand and gain mastery, they need that individualized instruction. That way, you can learn at your own pace not at the pace of everyone else."
Tuteria is one of 10 startups shortlisted for the Innovation Prize for Africa contest. Other finalists include a urine-based malaria test, a three-wheeled mini tractor for small-hold farmers, and a solar-powered tower that dramatically cuts the cost of air conditioning.
When parents come to Tuteria, they give their kids' grade, what subjects they're interested in, and what days they are free. The site then matches the request to two to four tutors nearby who can do the work, leaving the parents to choose. About 150 parents have used Tuteria's services so farmostly, Benson says, because one-on-one tutoring tends to be cheaper than institutional courses, and more flexible too.
Setting up a business in Nigeria isn't easy. "People say Nigeria is one of the hardest markets to start a business and I think it's true," says Benson. The site isn't particularly capital or labor intensive but there are everyday hurdles U.S. entrepreneurs don't have to worry about. For instance, Benson often pays tutors in person at a bank branch because the online system doesn't work.
Of course, once parents and tutors are matched, there's a chance the two sides will transact their business without Tuteria's help. But the site aims to keep them onboard. Tutors get a higher share of fees (up to 85%) if they bring in repeat business and if they keep their reputation rating above four points out of five.
"Our clients also want a third party involved, in case something goes wrong or a tutor is ill or misses a class and they need someone else. There's a reason to keep us on," Benson says.
The Innovation Prize for Africawhich features companies from Kenya, South Africa, Egypt, and Beninannounces its winners at an event in June. See more here.
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 7 Healthier Comfort Foods That Are Next-Level Good
description: We spend a lot of time scouring the Web for tasty, trendy, and healthy recipes. It's one of the many perks of working at Greatist. In the process, we come across some amazing resources for easy meals that prove cooking healthy doesn't have to be expensive or a giant time suck. And now, we want to make a habit of sharing them with you!
Every week, we're asking one of our favorite food bloggers to share some of their most popular recipes. This week Tieghan Gerard from Half Baked Harvest provides healthier takes on some of our favorite comfort foods.1. Epic Crispy Quinoa Burgers With Sweet Potato Fries
These mouthwatering burgers are a vegetarians dream come true. Top the juicy, protein-packed patty with caramelized onions, melty cheese, sweet potato fries, and a fried egg. Voil!2. Green Goddess Zucchini Pasta With Fried Halloumi
This comforting noodle dish is half zucchini, half pasta. Best of both worlds? I think so. The homemade herb, avocado, and tahini sauce provides a creamy texture without the cream. Oh, and the fried halloumi cheese is pretty much the best thing ever.3. Sweet Potato and Black Bean Nachos With Green Chile Salsa
These nachos sub wedges of nutrient-rich sweet potato for store-bought chips. Blend up a batch of the green chile salsa, throw all the ingredients in a pan, and thank me later.4. Sriracha Buffalo Cauliflower Bites
Baked, crunchy, and full of buffalo flavor, you won't even miss the chicken wingsI promise. And the healthier twist on blue cheese sauce is bomb! If youre vegan (or just want to make this dish even healthier), swap out regular butter for coconut butter.5. Cauliflower Crust Pizza With Chickpea Pepperoni
Pizza: It's the ultimate late-night food. Sure, this recipe isn't as easy as grabbing a slice on the way home, but we guarantee it's just asif not moredelicious. If making the low-carb cauliflower crust scares you, don't let it. It's definitely worth it.6. Loaded Crockpot Carne Asada Tacos
Slow cookers make everything easier, not to mention, tastier. Throw everything in and let it simmer away while you get started on the homemade Mexican fries. Using them as a taco topper is like built-in portion control. Genius.7. Zucchini Parmesan Chicken Nuggets
Chicken nuggets are amazing, but our favorite fried snacks aren't the healthiest to chow down onuntil now. These babies are veggie crusted, crunchier, and healthier. Even King Kurtis would be proud.
Tieghan Gerard is the photographer and creator of Half Baked Harvest, a food blog celebrating tasty wholesome foods. For more delicious recipes follow Tieghan on Pinterest, Facebook, and/or Instagram.
This article was written by Sally Herrod from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Chart The Rise And Fall Of America's Most-Eaten Foods
description: Potatoes have been Americans' favorite vegetable since the 1970s, and for the last two decades, our most-consumed dairy product has been American cheese. But in some ways, U.S. diets are getting healthier: We now eat more chicken than red meat, and dark greensonce consumed less than onionsare now second only to our beloved potatoes.
A fascinating infographic charts how the most popular foods in the U.S. have changed over four decades, based on USDA data. Whole milk has been overtaken by 2% milk and cheese; butter is now more popular than margarine. Carrots rose in popularity after "baby carrots" became common in grocery stores.
Nathan Yau, a statistician, created the chart for Flowing Data after seeing a similar visualization about the changing British diet. The infographic simultaneously sorts foods into six food groups. "I wanted to compare multiple foods at once, rather than to just see a time series for each food," says Yau.
The data surprised him, as he writes on the site:
I also didn't expect dark greens, which includes vegetables like spinach and broccoli, to rise so much from barely anything. Did people really consume basically no dark green vegetables pre-1980s?
And how about chicken with the come-from-behind victory? In 1970, people consumed more than twice as much beef than chicken, but by 1987 it surpassed pork, and in 2004 moved passed beef. Chicken has been on top since. You go, chicken.
Watch the full visualization at Flowing Data.
Cover Photo: Petrified Collection/Getty Images
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The 20-Minute Total-Body HIIT Workout
description: Can't make it to the gym? No equipment at home? No problem. This total-body HIIT workout is completely excuse-proof. Not only is it equipment free (meaning you can do it anywhere), but it also incorporates cardio, strength training, and stretchingso what would normally take you an hour will take just 20 minutes.
The workout is broken up into three sections that target your lower body, upper body, and core. Youll start with an easy warm-up, then do moves like squats, push-ups, and planks, focusing on your form. Remember: One perfect rep is better than 10 reps with bad form. Plus, the instructor offers multiple modifications to make some moves easier or harder, so you can come back to this workout over and over as you get stronger.
An exercise mat is optional, but its a good idea to have some water and a towel on hand (youll definitely work up a sweat!). Hit play to get started.
To recap, do each move for about 20 seconds.
Dynamic Warm-Up
Lower Body:
Jump Lunge or Reverse Lunge
Long Jump
Sumo Squat
Single-Leg Deadlift
Single-Leg Run Hop
Upper Body:
Grasshopper Push-Up
Plank Pressback
Tricep Extension
Jab
Tricep Push-Up
Core:
Shoulder Stand to Hamstring Stretch
Double Crunch
Side Plank Toe Touch
Lever Plank
Cool-Down
Looking for more short and effective at-home workouts? Grokker has thousands of routines, so youll never get bored. Bonus: For a limited time, Greatist readers get 40 percent off Grokker Premium (just $9 per month) and their first 14 days free. Sign up now!
This article was written by The Greatist Team from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Guy Just Broke the World Record for Planking
description: There are a lot of things you can do in eight hours: fly from Chicago to Paris, binge-watch your favorite Netflix show, sleep. Mao Weidong can hold a plank. The Chinese policeman set a new world record, clocking in at eight hours, one minute, and one second. This video from BBC captures the final moments. We can barely plank for more than a minute, so watching this incredible athlete is pretty nuts.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Only Weirdos Used to Run. Heres How It Became Cool
description: Walk by a park on a beautiful day, and you'll see tons of joggers decked out in neon. But as this funny video by Vox explains, it wasn't always cool to bond with your coworkers over calf soreness and your new kicks. Back in the day, running was acceptable for athletes but not something normal people did for exercise. One man was even ticketed for "illegal use of a highway by a pedestrian." You'll especially crack up over this 1968 newspaper article featuring the strange new trend.
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Comic Shows the Real Struggles Curvy Women Face
description: Comic book heroines are known for having hourglass figures with tiny waists and huge, perky boobs. Not here. An illustrator who calls herself angryartist113 on Tumblr created a comic called "Is This Healthy," which features a plus-size heroine. It's incredibly powerful not because she can fly or carry trucks with one arm but because she reveals the struggles curvy women face all the time:
Clothes that don't come in her size.
Feeling squished in chairs.
Wishing her body was as moldable as clay.
Working out but still feeling critical of her body.
The illustrations are raw and emotional, as the topic is close to the artist's heart. Check them out below and see the rest of her work on Tumblr.Images: Tumblr
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Kate Beckinsale Reads Cringeworthy Dating Advice From the 1800s
description: Before we could swipe right from the comfort of our sweatpants, women were expected to follow strict rules related to dating etiquette. In this hilarious video from Vanity Fair, Kate Beckinsale reads the ridiculous tips from one such guide, like "a lady should be expected to shine in the art of conversationbut not too brightly" and "no lady should be left unattended." (Just like luggage in the airport, as Beckinsale points out.) You'll laugh at the outdated advice but also cringemaybe Tinder isn't actually the worst.
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The Last Thing America's Cities Need: An App For Apartment Rental Bidding Wars
description: Hunting for a rental apartment in New York City and San Franciscotwo of the most inflated housing markets in the countryis an exercise in pure masochism. Even when you see an apartment listing that you can kind of, sort of afford and you are extra overjoyed because it's not a total dump, your spirits inevitably tank when you show up at a packed open house and you realize that hair-gelled guy next to you is willing to pay 15% more than the asking rent and put the first four months down in cash. Good luck.
Into this terrible situation jumps the latest real estate startup Rentberry, which the San Francisco Chronicle reports launched in San Francisco and New York this week.
The site aims to be an eBay-like auction site for rental hunters to bid on apartments in a competitive process. Rentberry says it offers an "efficient and transparent application process" that saves renters application feesthey only pay $25 for the place they get. Critics in San Francisco are calling it a platform that will inevitably encourage bidding wars and drive up prices even further in a city where one-bedrooms already average more than $3,000 a month. That said, bidding could drive down prices tooin theorybut that is less likely in San Francisco or New York than, say, less in-demand housing markets like Dallas, Texas, where Rentberry plans to launch next.
Speaking to Curbed, CEO Alex Lubinskywho sold a previous IT startup last year and pays $4,500 a month for his apartment in San Francisco's SoMA areadefends his service by saying that the service will stop tenants from making "blind bids" and overpaying, since overbidding asking price happens anyway. But that assumes that you are someone who has the luxury of bidding more than asking price in the first place. Many people don't.
"Here we have supply and demand, and we have freedom of choice. If people are willing to pay a certain amount, why should the landlord not get that price?," he told Curbed. He is not wrong. But that doesn't mean it's fair, a problem in both San Francisco and New York City, where rent regulation is weak and new affordable housing developments scarce.
That said, this service is currently not more than just a concept. I signed up for Rentberry and can't find any listings in New York City yet. So it could be much ado about nothing for now.
Cover Photo: Robert Kneschke via Shutterstock
This article was written by Jessica Leber from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Some Men Do Get Their Period. You Just Never Talk About It
description: Photo: ThinxThinx, the company that makes reusable period undies, is reminding everyone that we need to stop shaming people about their periods. Its awesome new ad campaign shows women and men proudly wearing the underwear next to relatable statements like, "I'm not really try'na stain my date's sheets later tonight."
It's the first of its type to feature a transgender man. Trans model Sawyer DeVuyst also stars in Thinx's "People With Periods" video, in which he gives an emotional account of his transition and reminds us that women aren't the only ones who get periods. Check out the powerful video below.
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The World's First Driverless City May Be In China
description: Wuhu in eastern China may become the world's first fully driverless city. The city is working with Baiduthe Chinese Googleto make autonomous vehicles the default for all kinds of journeys over the next five years.
"They want to be the first city in the world to embrace autonomous driving," Baidu's driverless car boss Wang Jing told the BBC in an interview.
Like Google is doing, Baidu's initial stages are designed to hone the brains and sensors of the driverless cars, so they're logging miles without any passengers. This three-year learning and testing phase will start in limited sections of the city, eventually expanding to cover the entire area. Baidu's plan also involves light goods vans and buses, both of which are essential to a normally functioning city.
In the next stage live passengers will be able to use the cars, and after a total of five years, Baidu and Wuhu hope that the whole city will be open to driverless vehicles. One big advantage to working inside a city is that, like human drivers, the robot cars can learn every inch of the terrain, letting them better deal with the real surprises, like erratic human drivers, and pedestrians.
According to Jing, the main problem with the current transport model is inefficiency. Privately owned cars sit around taking up valuable space when not in use. Commercialized car-sharing programs, on the other hand, make their cars work all the time, meaning less vehicles are needed overall.
Longer-term, says Jing, the hope is that a successful all-autonomous city will provide an example not just to the Chinese government, but to any city. If the experiment works, then other cities may be more likely to try it for themselves.
Other cities are already experimenting with ways to reduce car use. Germany is building a car-free neighborhood designed entirely around pedestrian use, and Oslo will ban cars entirely by 2019. It seems that, finally, we're collectively starting to realize that the car has no place in the modern city. Driverless cars are a great stepping stone, as are electric vehicles, but ultimately the best result for city-dwellers (currently half of the world's population) is a city where we can go unmolested by cars, and the ridiculous amount of space that they waste, whether parked or on the move.
related video: Battle for the driverless Taxi: Uber Vs. Google(Your browser doesn't support iframe)
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: How To Convince Your Employer To Divest Your 401(k) From Fossil Fuels
description: When Peabody Energythe largest coal company in the U.S.filed for bankruptcy in April, it was the latest in a long list of coal companies to fold. Oil stock prices also keep falling. As renewable energy grows, it's hard to argue that fossil fuel companies are a good long-term investmentbut your retirement savings are probably tied up in them.
Of the 100 largest public company 401(k) plans, only one option is divested from fossil fuels, according to an analysis by Fossil Free Funds, an online tool that checks each fund's investments.
By the time world leaders met at the climate talks last November in Paris, hundreds of universities and institutions like the Rockefeller Brothers Fundcollectively representing $3.4 trillion in assetshad pulled out of fossil fuels. Now some employees are starting to demand the same thing in 401(k)s.
Artem Rudik via Shutterstock
"It's easier, medium, or hard depending on if you're working for a small, mid-sized, or large company," says R. Paul Herman, CEO of HIP (Human Impact + Profit) Investor, a company that rates the social and environmental impact of 15,000 stocks, bonds, and mutual funds. "What we've found with small companies is that they are very adept and agile and listen to their employees."
At Stok, a small consulting startup that helps the building industry with sustainability issues, employees weren't willing to invest in the standard 401(k) the company originally offered.
"Basically, they were saying, 'I work all day long to mitigate the impacts of climate change...I'm not going to turn around and invest in fossil fuels and toxic products and bad labor practices,'" says Burke Pemberton, principal at Stok.
When company leaders approached their retirement plan advisor asking for a fossil-free option, they were told they'd have to work with someone else. They reached out to HIP Investor, which rated all of the funds their plan offered, and screened out anything with fossil fuel investments. Now, when employees sign up for a 401(k), they have a fossil free option for every level of risk tolerance. Each option is also screened for expected financial performance.
After making the shift, participation in the 401(k) went from 14% of employees to 95%.
Changing plans may also be a way to get employees interested in retirement plans who didn't really care before. "Most companies have to provide a 401(k) education meeting, and usually these are around financial lessons, and they're generally not that well attended, or it's not that exciting," says Herman. "But what we found is in companies that have created 401(k)s that have gone fossil free, that's created an excitement among employees."
Stok, like others in the social impact investing space, also believes that eliminating fossil fuel investments also makes financial sense.
"Companies' investment options for employees should be reflective of the future and not the past," says Herman. "The future of energy has to be clean and renewable."
Artem Rudik via Shutterstock
The oil and gas industry, which used to perform closely in line with the S&P 500, has been lagging for the past few years. "If your 401(k) is invested for the next one to three decades, your options should be reflective of what the solutions will be in the next one to three decades," he says.
It's also possible for investors to screen out funds based on other social issues. HIP Investor looks at how companies in each fund handle concerns like gender equity and child labor.
"If you get enough companies doing this, then you have shareholder activism," he says. "You can go to the funds in the plan and say you would like to invest in this fund, but you have these equities or businesses in your fund that have these practices that we don't agree with, and we're going to quit funding them unless you change your operating practices. And then you have leverage."
For employees at larger companies, convincing management to change 401(k) plans will probably be more challenging, as the companies often have less flexibility and may have to make changes through a board of directors.
"In a big company, my guess is that it will either take a sort of top-down directive from an enlightened leadership, or it will take a strong coalition of dozens or even hundreds of employees to speak up that it's important," says Herman.
HIP Investor, along with Fossil Free Funds, Divest Invest Individual, and Environmental Action, recently launched a petition asking employers to divest retirement funds from fossil fuels. The organization plans to deliver the petition to the country's 100 largest retirement plans.
At your own job, here's one place to start: visit Fossil Free Funds and figure out where your retirement money is invested now.
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The Problem With Diet and Fitness Challenges on Social Media
description: Thanks to social media, you don't have to join a CrossFit gym or subscribe to Weight Watchers to be part of a fitness or weight-loss community. Getting inspired is as easy as following a few fitness stars on Instagram.
Their accounts will fill your feed with kick-ass workouts, great meal ideas, and tons of before-and-after photos. While they can be extremely motivating, some pros are worried that posting these photos could send the wrong message about their programs.
"The community you find online can be motivating and keep you accountablebut you now have a world of people to whom you can compare yourself, and what you see isn't always real life," says Melissa Hartwig, cofounder of the popular Whole30 diet.
While Instagram can be a great resource for people doing Whole30 (and similar programs), the social platform's visual nature often places an emphasis on physical changes. "A photo doesn't always show better energy, deeper sleep, a happier mood, more self-confidence, improved digestion, fewer cravings, less anxiety, the elimination of migraines or asthma, or an improvement in blood sugar or cholesterol," Hartwig says.
On the other hand, using social media can help people remember that getting in shape and losing weight isn't as scary as it seems. "It shows people that change is possible and that you can do it at home by yourself," says Cassey Ho, founder of the popular YouTube fitness channel Blogilates.
A photo doesn't always show better energy, deeper sleep, a happier mood, more self-confidence, improved digestion, fewer cravings, less anxiety, the elimination of migraines or asthma, or an improvement in blood sugar or cholesterol.
Some programs, like Instagram star Kayla Itsines's popular Bikini Body Guides, encourage users to take regular photos of themselves to track their progress. Just search the BBG hashtags and you'll find thousands of photos. Many followers show their supportbut keep scrolling and you'll also see comments like, "You look good tho...better than me."
Ho is aware that making comparisons can be dangerous. "The only person you should compare yourself to is who you were yesterday," she says. Recently, she warned her fans in a post not to worry if their transformations don't look as intense as the ones they see in their feeds because everyone has a different body. Itsines also brought up another problem with before-and-afters in this Instagram: People can fake or exaggerate them. So if you're going to follow along, it's important to put them into perspective.
Maybe progress photos on social media pump you up to crush your next workout. Or maybe they leave you feeling insecure and stressed. The key is to figure out what level of interaction works best for you.
"If you find that your social media feed is making you feel less confident, less stoked about your progress, or is provoking unhealthy behavior like deliberate calorie cutting or overexercising, it's time to implement my #unfollowfriday campaign and get rid of those who aren't lifting you up," Hartwig says.
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Mapping San Francisco's Climate Change Vulnerabilities
description: A peninsula with a bay on one side and an ocean on the other, San Francisco is more threatened by climate-related sea level rise than most U.S. cities. But, happily, it's also doing more to prepare than other places (that means you, Florida).
The maps here come from the San Francisco Department of Public Health, which last year published an extensive report into the city's weaknesses. They show areas susceptible to flooding and extreme storms but also incorporate socioeconomic, health, and housing data. You get a sense not only of which places could be under water in the next century, but also how more vulnerable populations could be threatened. People who live alone, who are homeless, and who live in substandard housing are most at risk.
"These maps illustrate the importance of being able to identify and understand why some communities are more vulnerable than others so that resources and planning efforts can be prioritized accordingly," the report says.
Generally, the areas along the Pacific, the south east corner (Bayview Hunters Point), the Mission, South of Market, Chinatown, and the Tenderloin are more at risk. High-ground areas like Seacliff, Pacific Heights, and Twin Peaks are less affected, according to the maps.
See the whole series here.
Photo: Yulia Mayorova via Shutterstock
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Bike Mine Explodes If A Thief Tries To Steal Your Bike
description: Bike locks aren't a foolproof way to protect a bicyclea fact that's obvious to anyone who walks by a bike rack and sees a pile of twisted, empty U-locks lying on the ground. A London bike hacker designed another level of protection: If a bike is moved, the "Bike Mine" explodes, sounding like a gunshot. In theory, it will scare would-be thieves away.
After his own bike was stolen in the middle of the night, designer Yannick Read wanted to create an alarm that could also wake up owners in time to come outside before a thief finished hacking through a lock. "I don't know that it will help with cycle theft generally, but with the specific problem of bikes being stolen from your own property at night, then I think it can help a great deal," he says.
The Bike Mine kit includes titanium wire that attaches to part of your bike (or other property stored outside, such as a motorcycle), a spring-loaded trap, and a small detonator held on with Velcro. When the wire is tripped, the detonator fires a 150-decibel blast of sound.
It's startling and different enough that Read thinks people will actually respond to it, unlike the annoying car alarms everyone ignores.
Of course, one of the potential pitfalls of attaching a mine to your bike is that you might accidentally set it off yourself. "If you forget it's armed, then yes, it will go off, but unless you're lying on the floor at the time it won't go off in your face," Read says. "If you do it more than once, you'll annoy your neighbors."
Bike Mine is currently crowdfunding on Kickstarter.
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: You Might Not Be Poor, But You're Probably Just A Little Bad Luck Away
description: Living in New York City is not easy. Rent is high, food costs more than in most other cities, and paying for child care is all but impossible. Yet the usual poverty statistics often totally miss these day-to-day hardships that many people experience.
Poverty statistics are misleading for many reasons, but one is that they look at random snapshots in time, overlooking how and why people are constantly moving in and out of poverty. They also only look at income, even though someone who makes far above the poverty line but who has student loans and high living costs may be entirely cash poor. As a recent piece in The Atlantic powerfully highlighted, nearly half of all Americans don't even have $400 on hand to handle an unexpected emergency expense.
A new survey, called the Poverty Tracker, looks at poverty through a broader lens, and its results should give policymakers pause. Researchers from Columbia University's Population Research Center and the Robin Hood Foundation interviewed 2,300 New Yorkers of all income levels, and came back to them with detailed questions over two years, providing a much deeper sense of what hardship looks like.
It doesn't look good.
The survey looked at three forms of disadvantage. One looked at a traditional measure of poverty, but they also asked about chronic health conditions and "material hardship," which is whether someone could pay for essential daily needs such as food, utilities, rent, and prescription drugs.
A frighteningly high 63% of New Yorkers experienced one of these three forms of disadvantage over the course of a year, the survey found, and 40% over the entire year. Also, poverty is much more fluid than typical snapshots in time indicate: 31% of people met the city's definition of poverty at some point during the year, but only 9% did over the entire yearthe first figure is much higher than New York's official poverty rate, which is 21%.
"The number one finding is probably how many people are on the verge of poverty, even if they are not literally poor by the federal or New York City definition," says Michael Weinstein, chief program officer at the Robin Hood Foundation, an organization focused on fighting poverty in New York.
The inability to meet daily needs regardless of income was more persistent than poverty23% of New Yorkers were in that position over an entire year.
The Poverty Tracker also looked at the effect of seeking government assistance or social services. The biggest surprise was that people who sought and received help were only slightly more likely to escape poverty than people who received nonebut receiving help did have a much larger apparent effect on protecting people from entering poverty in the first place.
"That should be pregnant with implications for what we do and how we do it," says Weinstein, referring to how policymakers and funders strategize the fight poverty.
Unsurprisingly, the more assets people had, the less likely they were to be vulnerable to poverty or material hardship, and those with more debt were more likely to fall into poverty. But wealth didn't offer immunity. Fourteen percent of people with at least $200,000 in assets entered periods of hardship over the survey time, and 11% of people with $1.8 million in assets entered the technical definition of poverty (maybe by losing their jobs).
For people without savings, Weinstein notes how quickly relatively small losses can turn into permanent horrors. An example: A babysitter quitting causes a single mother to drop out of community college, forcing her into minimum wage jobs in the future.
"Our data shows what national surveys have showed for many years: Americans have no wealth," he says.
Check out the Poverty Tracker website for an interactive version of the graphics above.
Cover Photo: Judith Wagner/Getty Images
This article was written by Jessica Leber from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Back Pain? This Amazing Massage Cane Will Do the Trick
description: Thera Cane Massager
Lets just address the elephant in the room. Yes, this back massager looks like something your grandma would own (the name Thera Cane doesnt help). But when youve got muscle aches and pains, relief trumps aestheticsand boy does this massager deliver.
We used to reach for a heating pad, some ibuprofen, and a foam roller when back pain popped up. If it got really bad, wed splurge on a massage. But after trying the Thera Caneand seeing how easy and effective it waswe were full-on converts.
Have aches in your shoulders? Hook the cane onto your upper back and slowly move your arms up and down to unwind any knots. (The less work you do with your arms, the better it works.) How about soreness in the hard-to-reach mid-back? Flip the cane upside down, loop it under your arm, and apply pressure. You can even relieve neck pain by pressing one of the treatment balls lightly against the problem area.
Once we realized how well the Thera Cane worked, we quickly got over its slightly embarrassing appearancewe may have even whipped it out to show some friends at a recent party.
I Want This! $29.95
This article was written by The Greatist Team from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The Most Important Lesson Depression Taught Me
description: "You don't need to suffer anymore. Just take the pills that I will prescribe you, and you will be fine."
Was it really this simple, and had I missed the point for 30 years? Thinking suffering is part of life, unlearning all ways of being, learning new ways of seeing? Falling back and getting up and then falling back again?
Should I do it, I wondered? Maybe that is the solution, and I had just refused to seeyet it was there all along, a prescription away.
I walked out of the psychiatrist's office, still burdened with the heavy, hot metal bricks on my chest. Still not feeling my lower legs. My mind was getting foggier. I did not want to live in my head or my body. At the same time, I had depleted all the willpower that had guided me, thus far, to make decisions.
A month earlier, I was standing on stage, inviting 300 people who attended my company's conference to follow their passions.
Everything seemed glittery. Successful. Per the book. I had left Airbnb after almost four years to start my own business.
I had found my passion, followed it, worked hard, assembled a team, got press coverage, and all that jazz. I also stressed out a lot but bragged about it. I endured being perceived as harsh because they said being successful means not everyone will love you. I ignored my fears. I barely slept, hardly worked out, and ate fastand crap.
When the conference ended that afternoon, I ran home. As the congratulations came pouring in, my tears came hurdling. An uncontrollable wave of heat took over my chest. All alone in my apartment (that had become a storage center), I wanted to shrink. Shrink under the sheets. Perhaps it would all go away. I crawled into my bed, hoping to disappear. But the feelings got bigger and transformed into a pounding heart that stole my sleep, my only solace.How can the woman who teaches people to follow their passions be so miserable in following her own?
Ashamed of my situation, I packed my bags and left for Lebanon. The first night in my childhood bed I started feeling tingling in my lower legs. Moments later I lost the sensation in them. The next morning I went to the doctor. I could barely walk. I was convinced I had some serious illness. I spent two weeks on WebMD, reading about cancer, Parkinson's, and anything that might kill me. In my friend's words: I lost the plot.
I was confused. No loving words, familiar embraces, or promises of ease or a bright future were helping. All I could feel was emptiness. I had fallen into a vortex where there was no end and no beginning. No colors and no shapes. Dozens of tests, an MRI, and countless sleepless nights later, the verdict came to light: I was not physically ill; I was suffering from depression.
As Beirut was vibrating with Christmas lights, my eyes were dimming with curtains of despair. I knew I had to leave. I couldn't bare seeing my family suffer because of me. The day before Christmas I escaped to a buddhist monastery, making it my last attempt to get out of the vortex before taking on the psychiatrist's "magic" pills.
My body had been telling me to stop, but I did not listen. It screamed at me to stop, but I did not listen. Then it stopped, and I had to listen.
Alone in nature, I breathed. I hugged trees. I cried and cried and cried. I let strangers hold me. I held strangers. I talked about my shameful fears. I asked for forgiveness. I gave myself forgiveness. I watched the sun rise and the sun set. Over and over. I ate slowly. Really slowly. And in a matter of days, it all became clear. I had been living outside of my body.
My body had been telling me to stop, but I did not listen. It screamed at me to stop, but I did not listen. Then it stopped, and I had to listen. I had ignored my body for decades. My greatest gift. And as I got to know my body again, I saw that it's not built for the way San Francisco functions.
I could not sustain slaving away at start-ups to have credibility and make a living. My start-up has to grow fast to gain traction and investors' approval. I need to show I have it all under control. Do it alone, and if I don't want to be alone, spend hours online dating, collecting disappointments and useless conversations.
My body is not built for the grind.
For the way society works. My body cannot handle a lot of unnecessary stress. My body had endured a lot too: war, physical violence, emotional abuse, more wars, alcohol, little sleep. It is delicate like a flower. Soft like silk. Sensitive like a child. My body is vulnerable, open, authentic, sweet. It is a teacher of kindness and patience.
Most importantly, my body is not your body. I cannot compare it to yours. You cannot compare yours to mine. I abused my body, because I compared it to those who ran marathons, barely slept, and launched billion-dollar companies.
Our bodies are trusted friends. They tell us when to slow down. They warn us about unattended emotions. They tell us when something is good for us. People say, "It feels right." They heal us from diseases, illnesses, and adapt to our crazy lifestyles. Our bodies hold the answers to life's most complicated questions. If only we listened.
Depression was the best thing that ever happened to me.
I had to go to the bottom to finally look up and see the clear blue skies. To learn a lesson that will come to liberate me. On December 31, 2015, against all odds, I chose to focus my year on building consistent habits of listening and caring for my body.
With that, I let go of my ambitions of building a big company quickly. I let go of needing to make San Francisco my home. I let go of pleasing anyone, impressing men, sticking to an image of strength. I recognize that I have the privilege to make time for myself, and I plan not to waste that opportunity.
As I write this post, I am in India traveling around the country. Every day, I fall into the old patterns of mistreating my body, and every day I pick my self back up and try again.
And when things get really hard I reread this poem:
"I walk down the street.
There is a deep hole in the sidewalk.
I fall in.
I am lost I am helpless.
It isn't my fault.
It takes forever to find a way out.
I walk down the same street.
There is a deep hole in the sidewalk.
I pretend I don't see it.
I fall in again.
I can't believe I am in the same place.
But it isn't my fault.
It still takes me a long time to get out.
I walk down the same street.
There is a deep hole in the sidewalk.
I see it is there.
I still fall in. It's a habit.
My eyes are open.
I know where I am.
It is my fault. I get out immediately.
Walk down the same street.
There is a deep hole in the sidewalk.
I walk around it.
I walk down another street."
Portia Nelson
Note: This essay is a personal experience. We are all unique and thus benefit from different ways of healing and living. I have the utmost respect for whatever route you choose.
This post originally appeared on Medium and was republished with the author's permission. The views expressed herein are hers. Jessica Semaan is the founder of The Passion Co. and is on a mission to help others find their passion. Follow her on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram, and sign up for her biweekly newsletter here.
This article was written by Jessica Semaan from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This New Test Will Tell You How Your Office Is Affecting Your Health
description: Let's say two people want to lose weight. One has a job near a bike path and bike parking in his officewhich has an inviting light-filled staircase that makes it fun to climb two flights of stairsand his employer provides healthy snacks. Another works at an office park off the highway, doesn't move all day, and has the choice between Doritos or Lay's in the vending machine when he wants a quick snack. Who do you think will have an easier time losing pounds?
A growing body of research shows that the design of our surroundings strongly influences our health behaviorsand bad design is one reason for America's obesity crisis.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (National Center for Environmental Health). Architect: Perkins + Will. Fitwel: three-star rated.Hedrich Blessing
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the General Services Administration (GSA) have now created a new certification, called Fitwel, to encourage healthier workplaces, where many people spend too much of their lives. After piloting the scoring algorithm in 89 federal government buildings in 2015, they are now partnering with the Center for Active Design, a nonprofit established by then-New York City mayor Michael Bloomberg in 2013, to make it available to any workplace.
"We're a health agency, so we're trying to make sure we're operating to promote health and taking those lessons learned and sharing them more broadly," says the CDC's chief sustainability officer Liz York.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (National Center for Environmental Health). Architect: Perkins + Will. Fitwel: three-star rated.Hedrich Blessing
Fitwel is basically a questionnaire that assesses the healthiness of the physical work environment. The CDC and the GSA developed the scoring system over five years, consulting public health experts, designers, and more than 3,000 research studies. The questions cover 60 strategies that are proven to contribute to healthier offices, such as proximity to public transit, bike parking, indoor air quality, healthy food access, fitness facilities, and lobby and stairwell design. The algorithm that puts all these factors together weighs each by the strength of their evidence that they work, and their potential impact.
The goal is that Fitwel can be used by any building manager to improve incrementally, no matter their budget or situation. There is no expensive third-party certification, like the existing Well Building Standard or the well-known LEED Green Building certification, and it tries to avoid creating extra paperwork or costs. Building managers submit their questionnaire answers, with photographic evidence where applicable, to receive a Fitwel rating (eventually the goal is to have an app).
"This is very much designed for existing buildings," says Center for Active Design director Joanna Frank. "It really is about raising everybody up a few levels, rather than saying this is the bar."
In the pilot program in federal buildings, including nine at the CDC's campus, York says that they found very simple, low-cost ways to encourage employee fitness. Simply adding staircase signage and even music in stairwells could increase the use of people using the stairs dramatically. The testing also found that having wellness "champions" at workplaces that could work with facilities managers really improved the use of Fitwel's questionnaire and recommendations.
"Fitwel addresses the industry need for a standard for healthy workplaces and a provides a practical, attainable certification," said Phil Harrison, CEO of the global architecture firm Perkins+Will, in a statement that also notes that 86% of U.S. adults are expected to be obese or overweight by 2030.
Byron Rogers Federal Building and US Courthouse. Architect: HOK and Bennett Wagner & Grody Architects. Fitwel: two-star rated.Raul J. Garcia
"The point of the system is to try to take this theoretical science and translate it into action at a building level. There's a huge gap between the scientist who is looking at physical activity and data for sidewalks and sidewalk use, and the [person] who is responsible for the building and making decisions for its budget," says York.
More than ever today, employers care about wellness as a means of improving productivity, reducing health costs and absenteeism, and recruiting talent. With 5.6 million commercial office spaces in the United States, Frank believes that Fitwel can have a large effect. "It's interesting to see how that shift is now beginning to drive business thinking," she says.
The Center for Active Design will roll out Fitwel to initial selected partners this year and have a broader launch in 2017. The CDC will continue to stay involved on the academic side, updating research and potentially expanding the program beyond commercial offices to residential buildings and homes.
This article was written by Jessica Leber from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 7 Sheet-Pan Recipes That Couldn't Be Easier
description: From set it and forget it Crock-Pot dinners to meatless meals with 5 or fewer ingredients, we love recipes that cut down kitchen time without compromising on nutrition. These well-balanced, one-sheet dinners do just that. With minimal hands-on cooking required and easy breezy cleanup, whats not to love?Photo: Damn DeliciousHoney Balsamic Chicken Breasts and Veggies
This recipe gives you even more reason to believe that chicken breasts are anything but boring: Perk up the poultry with a tangy balsamic and honey glaze that becomes even more concentrated in flavor as it bakes in the oven.Photo: Soni's FoodHearty Ratatouille With Goat Cheese
Slicing the veggies into thin rounds is probably the most time-consuming part of this meatless meal, but the end result is so worth it. Whether you leave it dairy-free or go with the goat cheese crumbles on top, its as delicious as it is photo-worthy.Photo: Cafe DelitesOne-Pan Lemon Garlic Baked Salmon + Asparagus
There are fewer than 10 ingredients in this recipetalk about the easiest one-pan meal ever! Packed with healthy fats and protein from the perfectly flaked salmon, plus an impressive fiber count from the greens, it could be one of the healthiest too.Photo: The Cookie RookieBaked Sheet Pan Chicken Fajitas
The mix of yogurt with fajita seasoning used to coat the chicken is so tasty on its own, you may not even need extra condiments (although whos going to say no to a healthy dollop of guac?) Simply scoop into tortillas and devour!Photo: A Healthy Life for MeBroiled Shrimp and Broccoli With Cashew Sauce
Peanut sauces are a dime a dozenthis recipe goes for cashew butter instead. Not only is it higher in omega-3s than its peanutty counterpart, its also milder in flavor, so other ingredients like sriracha and sesame oil can grab a bit of the spotlight too.Photo: Smitten KitchenSheet Pan Chicken Tikka
It's worth the extra effort to get a few additional spices to transform regular old chicken and potatoes into an Indian menu favorite. Its restaurant-level delicious but still requires much less hands-on time than a stove top curry.Photo: Kitchen TreatySheet Pan Tofu and Veggie Dinner
No fancy seasonings, no elaborate sauces. All it takes is salt, pepper, and olive oil to make a pan of tofu, sweet potatoes, and veggies taste amazing. (Believe it.)
This article was written by Anisha Jhaveri from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The German Government Made A Delightfully NSFW Online Sex Manual For Immigrants
description: If you're a German doctor or medical professional working with migrants and refugees, you might prescribe them the URL to a new sex website. Zanzu, launched by the German government, is an online sex manual, which covers everything from blow jobs to HIV to gender to human rights and law.
Predictably, the site is causing something of a fuss, although inside Germany so far it seems that the biggest problem is that the project cost $136,000 (cheap, considering how well-designed it is), and outside Germany the site's most mentioned aspect seems to be the graphics, which are both explicit and clinical at the same time.
Warning: Sexy, NSFW German cartoons below
While it's designed for Germany's current huge influx of refugees as a tool to be used by professionals when working with the new immigrants, it's a truly excellent resource, covering everything from having good sex, to dealing with STDs and drugs, to families, abortion, adoption, sexuality and gender, and the rights of everyone involved.
Apart from the sniping about the cost, and the snickering about the pictures, the main real objection is that such a site is patronizing to migrants. German sex scientist Heinz-Jrgen Voss told the Washington Post that the assumption that Syrians and Iraqis know less about sex than Germans is "racist." On the other hand, many immigrants come from countries where the sexual norms are very different from those in Germany. Also, in countries under religious rule, sexual education may not be available at all. Zanzu, by contrast, lays out everything. It would make a great teaching resource at any school, anywhere.
Others criticize the site for being pointless. "[It is] terribly nave to think one could sweep away the socialization and cultural conditioning experienced since early childhood with a few nice little pictures, and an integration course," writes German blogger Anabel Schunke.
This is a familiar attitudethat if something can't be done perfectly, and all at once, then it must be a waste of time. Also, the assumption that Zanzu is a propaganda machine designed to "sweep away the socialization and cultural conditioning" is itself nave. It also ignores the fact that education is the single most important factor in any kind of change.
Still, all of this doesn't stop the site from being both educational and hilarious, simultaneously. Perhaps the best fun to be had is the most old-fashioned. As every schoolboy knows, the best part of any dictionary is the naughty words. So what could be better than Zanzu's own dictionary, which not only allows translations between 11 languages (including Arabic, English, Romanian, and Turkish) but will also read out the words to you?
All Images: via Zanzu
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 5 Books Bill Gates Says You Should Read This Summer
description: When he's not funding malaria vaccines and toilets that produce clean water, Bill Gates finds time to read interesting books (and to tell us what he's reading). Last December, he told us about a book that explains very complicated things in simple language, and about a book showing how "mindset" affects learning.
And now he's back with another list: a little light summer reading as the season approaches and we all head to the metaphorical beach (or wherever it is you like to go). Typically, Gates's new suggestions contain plenty of science and technology (and, more unusually, some science fiction) and plenty of monster ideas. (They also usually contain some books by women, something Gates seems to have missed in summer reading planning, but which we can offer some other suggestions for). Here are Gates's five choices:
The Vital Question, by Nick Lane
(Your browser doesn't support iframe)Gates says he was "blown away" by this book by British biologist Nick Lane (so much so he sought out a face-to-face meeting). Lane explores the tiny energy movements within all cells, showing how this energy is key to explaining why some organisms remained simple, like bacteria, and some grew into complex organisms, like human beings. The vital question is why only one species became complex like we did: Was this a freak event or could it be repeated? "It's not just theoretical," Gates says. "Mitochondria (the power plants in our cells) could play a role in fighting cancer and malnutrition. Even if the details of Nick's work turn out to be wrong, I suspect his focus on energy will be seen as an important contribution to our understanding of where we come from."
Seveneves, by Neal Stephenson
"The plot gets going in the first sentence, when the moon blows up," Gates writes of this one. "People figure out that in two years a cataclysmic meteor shower will wipe out all life on Earth, so the world unites on a plan to keep humanity going by launching as many spacecraft as possible into orbit." It sounds like something out of an Elon Musk business plan. But actually it's a sci-fi novel from a fellow Seattle native. "Seveneves inspired me to rekindle my sci-fi habit," Gates says.
(Your browser doesn't support iframe)How Not to be Wrong, by Jordan Ellenberg
Ellenberg, a math professor at the University of Wisconsin, says math is useful in ordinary life every day. It's not something you learn at school and then instantly can put behind you. You need math to understand electoral politics or the Massachusetts lottery (that is, why you should never play it) and Ellenberg introduces us to many of the founding principles. "The writing is funny, smooth, and accessiblenot what you might expect from a book about math," Gates says. "If the stories he tells add up to a larger lesson, it's that "to do mathematics is to be, at once, touched by fire and bound by reason"and that there are ways in which we're all doing math, all the time."
Sapiens: A Brief History of Humankind, by Yuval Noah Harari
Spanning 400 pages, this book traces the entire history of mankind. It looks at why our version of humanity, Homo sapiens, won out against other human species, including Homo neanderthalensis (the neanderthals) in Europe and Homo erectus, in Asia. The answer, he says, was our cognitive abilities: about 70,000 years ago, Homo sapiens underwent a "cognitive revolution." "I think many readers will find the final section of the book especially stimulating," Gates writes. "Harari turns more philosophical as he writes about our species today and how we might live in the future. He wonders how artificial intelligence, genetic engineering, and other technologies will change our species." Plenty to digest on that beach.
The Power to Compete, by Hiroshi Mikitani and Ryoichi Mikitani
Gates includes a book about Japan as his last choice (he has a "soft spot" for the country). The Power to Compete is by a father-and-son team and looks at how to restore Japan's economic fortunes after years in the doldrums (Ryoichi Mikitani, an economist, died in 2013; Hiroshi Mikitani is an internet entrepreneur). Gates agrees about the need for Japan to bring more women into its economy, for more Japanese to learn English, and for its companies to be more innovative. "The Power to Compete is a smart look at the future of a fascinating country," he says.
See the whole list here.
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: These NSFW Illustrations Prove That Every Body Is a Yoga Body
description: Child's pose feels pretty damn awesome for everyoneno matter your body type. But when Danish illustrator Marie Jrgensen tried to buy a poster of yoga poses, she found only ones with the stereotypical yoga body (long, lean, and likely white).
So Jrgensen set out to create her own yoga prints that show naked yogis (with #nofilter for body hair or stomach rolls) of all different shapes and sizes. These adorable illustrations are a fun way to celebrate yoga, while also serving as a reminder that every body is a yoga body.
Here are some of our favorites:
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Scotland Will Be Home To The World's Largest Floating Wind Farm
description: Offshore wind farms are getting more practical, partly because of a new technology that allows them to float. Scotland, or rather the ocean off Scotland's coast, will soon become home to the world's largest installation of the technology.
The Hywind Park will consist of five floating six-megawatt turbines, anchored in water over 330 feet deep, and situated 15-22 miles from land. The project, conceived in 2014 and recently given the go-ahead, has previously been called the "world's first floating wind farm," and now is apparently the largest.
The Hywind farm is the first deployment of a 2009 test project by Norwegian company Statoil, which makes oil rigs. The turbines bob around individually, each one a huge steel tube ballasted at one end, and topped with a turbine. This is in contrast to regular offshore turbines, which are mounted on concrete and steel foundations, making them much harder to build. Each tube is tethered with three steel cables.
An offshore wind farm is invisible to most people, which (mostly) avoids one of the chief complaints against farms on land, but it's not quite as practical and it'll still kill birds. Not only does the bobbing flock of turbines have to be made to survive in a salty, corrosive environment and to withstand the buffeting of the waves it floats on, it also needs to be connected to the grid, or all those generation efforts are for nothing. On the other hand, it floats, so as long as you can get everything into place, your setup is easier than a fixed offshore wind farm.
The huge 258 meter turbines would tower over the Statue of Liberty (it's three times higher), or London's Big Ben, and combined they will power 20,000 homes. It's not cheap though. Offshore turbines are around eight times more expensive than those on land. But they're also at least eight times more impressive, and have one big advantagewe're not going to run out of space for them any time soon.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Beautiful Guitar Is Made From Linen Fibers And Industrial Waste Resin
description: With very few exceptions, guitarseven electric guitarsare made of wood. From a sustainability point of view, this is bad, because they're usually slow-growing hardwoods and sometimes exotic woods. In an acoustic guitar, where the music is generated and shaped by the vibrations of the soundboard, the kind of wood used can dramatically change the guitar's tone. The preferred material is old-growth wood.
The El Capitan, from Blackbird guitars, looks as good as a wooden guitar, but is made from something far more sustainableflax linen fibers mixed with resin gathered from industrial waste. The material is called Ekoa and in many ways, it's better than wood.
Blackbird made its name with carbon-fiber guitars, aimed at travelers, and has managed to make instruments that are not just light and tough, but that sound and play as well as "real" guitars. The problem was, not everybody wanted a techy-looking black guitar and painting carbon fiber to look like wood is just plain tacky. So, 10 years ago, Blackbird founder Joe Luttwak founded another company, called Lingrove, to come up with a suitable and attractive alternative. The result is the new material, and it is useable anywhere you might customarily use bent wood or molded plasticskis, furniture, boat paddles, and even car interiors.
Luttwak claims that Ekoa is every bit as good as old-growth wood as a guitar material, and it certainly sounds pretty good. But Ekoa offers many other advantages. First is its strength and light weight. They're desirable qualities on their own, but they also allow some innovation, like a hollow neck, with a second sound hole up in the guitar's headstock. This gives the player a kind of stereo output not available on other guitars.
Wood is also notoriously sensitive to temperature and humidity. Get a guitar too dry and the wood will warp and eventually crack. To keep a guitar playable and safe, many players will even humidify their homes in winter. If that sounds like a lot of trouble, it is. Ekoa (and also carbon fiber) are immune to these problems, whichfor folks who play in tropical Florida or arid Las Vegasmight be the only thing they need to know.
The El Capitan does have some things that it shares with traditionally built, high-end guitars: It will set you back a cool $3,200 and takes 12 weeks to build.
Photos: courtesy Blackbird
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 99 Percent Chance 2016 Will Be Hottest Year
description: Odds are increasing that 2016 will be the hottest year on the books, as April continued a remarkable streak of record-warm months.
Last month was rated as the warmest April on record by both NASA and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, which released their data this week. In the temperature annals kept by NOAA, it marked the 12th record warmest month in a row.
How global temperatures have differed from average so far this year.
Click image to enlarge. Credit: NOAA
Global temperatures have been hovering around 1.5C (2.7F) above pre-industrial averages
a threshold thats being considered by international negotiators as a new goal for limiting warming.
While an exceptionally strong El Nio has provided a boost to temperatures in recent months, the primary driver has been the heat that has built up from decades of unabated greenhouse gas emissions.
Nearing 1.5C
NOAA announced its temperature data for April on Wednesday, with the month measuring 1.98F (1.1C) above the 20th century average of 56.7F (13.7C). It was warmer than the previous record-hot April of 2010 by 0.5F (0.3C).
NASAs data showed the month was about the same amount above the average from 1951-1980. The two agencies use different baselines and process the global temperature data slightly differently, leading to potential differences in the exact temperatures anomalies for each month and year.
Both agencies records show that global temperatures have come down slightly from the peaks they hit in February and March, which ranked as the most anomalously warm months by NASA and NOAA, respectively.
{related}
Climate Central has reanalyzed the temperature data from recent months, averaging the NASA and NOAA numbers and comparing it to the average from 1881-1910 to show how much temperatures have risen from a period closer to preindustrial times.
The analysis shows that the year-to-date temperature through April is 1.45C above the average from that period. Governments have agreed to limit warming this century to less than 2C from pre-industrial times and are exploring setting an even more ambitious goal of 1.5C, which temperatures are currently close to.
The fact that we are beginning to cross key thresholds at the monthly timescale is indeed an indication of how close we are getting to permanently exceeding those thresholds, Michael Mann, a climate scientist at Penn State, said in an email.
A year-to-date look at 2016 global temperatures compared to recent years.
Click image to enlarge.
It will take a significant effort to further limit emissions of carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping gases to realize those goals, experts say. Carbon dioxide levels at the Mauna Loa observatory in Hawaii are already poised to stay above 400 parts per million year-round. They have risen from a pre-industrial level of 280 ppm and from 315 ppm just since the mid-20th century.
Hottest Year?
As El Nio continues to rapidly decay, monthly temperature anomalies are slowly declining. They are still considerably higher than they were just last year, the current title-holder for the hottest year on record.
Given the head start this year has over last, there is a more than 99 percent chance that 2016 will best 2015 as the hottest year on the books, according to Gavin Schmidt, head of NASAs Goddard Institute for Space Studies, which keeps the agencies temperature data.
If 2016 does set the mark, it will be the third record-setting year in a row.
It is likely, though, that the streak would end with this year, as a La Nia event is looking increasingly likely to follow El Nio, and it tends to have a cooling effect on global temperatures.
But even La Nia years today are warmer than El Nio years of previous decades
a clear sign of how much human caused-warming has increased global temperatures. In fact, the planet hasnt seen a record cold year since 1911.
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Minivan Of Bikes Was Designed For Soccer Moms
description: An improbable new bike is designed to take on the minivan. In front, there's room to cart two kids to a soccer game; in back, there's an option to add a third child seat. When children aren't on the bike, the seats convert into a lockable cargo area that can carry groceries.
The Taga 2.0's minivan-like qualities: space for cargo, comfortable seats, and reclining positions for sleeping. Unlike many cargo bikes, it has three wheels, so it's stable if the bike is stationary or hits a pothole. "It is much safer to ride a tricycle than riding a regular bike, especially with kids," says CEO Hagai Barak.
The kids sit in front, so they can talk to the parent in the steering seat. For long distances, it's possible to make it electric; on rainy days, there's a canopy to keep kids dry. If someone wants to drive part of the way, the whole thing fits in a trunk.
The company previously designed a bike-stroller, which converts into a stroller when someone arrives somewhere. But they wanted to make an option that could carry more (and older) kids, with reconfigurable seats, andimportantlythat was more affordable. The new bike costs $599, half the price of some alternatives on the market.
Barak thinks the time is right for a bigger shift to family biking in the U.S., now that a quickly growing network of bike lanes has made it safer to ride in many cities. For kids, it's meant to be more fun that riding in a car: on the request of a child tester, designers added a water gun and other toys to the front of the bike.
The company is currently running a Kickstarter campaign to raise funds.
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Guys Get Photoshopped to Look Like Celebs (and End Up Hating It)
description: Most guys won't admit they want to look like Hollywood's leading men, but let's just say they wouldn't be upset if they woke up and saw Jon Hamm or Chris Pratt staring back at them in the mirror.
What's the quickest way to look more like a hunky celeb? Good old Photoshop. In this BuzzFeed video, the Try Guys get professional photos retouched to look like Justin Bieber, John Krasinski, Channing Tatum, and Cristiano Ronaldo. (It's a long video, but we promise it's worth sticking around until the end.) We couldn't believe how uncomfortable the guys were with their retouched photos. Maybe looking like a celeb with a sculpted, chiseled physique isn't all it's cracked up to be.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Is What Food Labels Would Look Like If They Were Honest
description: One glance at the eye-catching labels in a grocery store and it's easy to let your hopes run wild. But let's be honest: When does your bowl of soup ever turn out exactly like the photo on the can? Designer Caisa Nilaseca visualized what would happen if supermarket labels were honest in a series of graphics:
You can view the full album on Design Taxi.See More!
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: See How Much the American Diet Has Changed in the Last 40 Years
description: Do you eat more beef or chicken? How about oranges or strawberries? If we time-traveled back to 1970, we'd find the average American chowing down on beef and oranges, while today they'd likely prefer chicken and strawberries (though not necessarily together).
This data comes from statistician Nathan Yau, who crunched the numbers from the USDA's Food Availability Data System. Yau displayed the food trends in a niftyand easy to digest (yes, that's a food pun)interactive chart on the site Flowing Data. Click below to find out when we started consuming more chicken than pork and more 2 percent milk than whole.
Show Me the Chart
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Genetically Engineered Crops Aren't Bad For Your Health, But They Aren't Going To Feed The World
description: In recent years, a flood of food and restaurant brands have been getting rid of genetically engineered ingredients in their products, responding to consumers who think that these ingredients are bad for their healtheven though most scientists say that they are perfectly safe. Vermont now requires companies label these ingredients on food packaging.
Since they came into commercial use 20 years ago, GMOs may have been controversial but actually haven't been very effective.
The nation's most respected scientific body, the National Academy of Sciences, weighed in on Monday and their answer was clear: genetically engineered crops are safe to eat and don't pose health risks. It doesn't say whether they should be labeled, though.
The conclusion is unsurprising to anyone who had followed the debate over genetically engineered crops.
The biggest chasm in belief between the scientific community and the public concerns the topic, even more than climate change or the science-denying controversy over vaccines and autism. Even though almost 9 in 10 scientists have said genetically modified foods (often called GMOs) are safe to eat, fewer than 40% of Americans agree, surveys have shownmuch of the disagreement owing to psychology rather than evidence. By this point, this report is unlikely to change the debate much. Groups that have long opposed GMOs have criticized the Academy's process, since some of its members have ties to the agriculture and biotech industry.
rsooll via Shutterstock
The report, which examined 900 studies and held multiple meetings over two years, is most interesting for other reasons.
Since they came into commercial use 20 years ago, GMOs may have been controversial but actually haven't been very effective, the report concluded, falling short of their promise that they can feed the world. In fact, there isn't strong evidence that the use of genetic engineering has increased crop yieldswhich is the main purpose of the two most common traits that are inserted into plants: insect and herbicide resistance. In some cases, they have reduced the amount of insecticides used, saving farmers money. But without proper pest and weed management, the irresponsible overuse in other cases (especially of products like Monsanto's weed killer Roundup) is leading to the development of resistance anywaythe report calls this a "major agronomic problem." And while Roundup-resistant crops might not be a health problem, there is a much bigger debate over whether the main ingredient in Roundup, glyphosate, poses a cancer risk.
Today, GMOs are commercially available in 12 crops, but mostly used in three major cash crops: maize, soybean, and cotton. The United States, despite its consumer reluctance, grows 40% of the world's GMOs and regulations are relatively lax (Europe, meanwhile bans them). What the report doesn't get much intoand what at least some critics of GMOs emphasizeis less about the science and more about the way that these crops are fed into the industrial food system dominated by biotech giants that have stifled small-scale organic farming systems and encouraged unsustainable forms of agriculture to dominate.
Alf Ribeiro via Shutterstock
This debate over GMOs seems old-fashioned in many ways. The field is poised to change dramatically, with the development of new methods in gene editing like CRISPRwhich allows scientists to precisely add or delete DNA to a crop in a sped-up version of what might happen with conventional plant breeding anyway. And so the lines between genetically modified and "natural" breeding methods are not so clear anymore.
Fred Gould, the evolutionary biologist who headed the panel, compares this change to the blurring boundary between cell phones and laptops. Twenty years ago, these technologies were clearly used for different purposes-today, we do most of the same things on both.
It's a mistake that regulations are made based on the technology used to create crops, rather than making individual judgments based on the crops themselves.
Gene editing introduces entirely new questions about the risks of food technologies that only worsen the regulatory morass. In April, the U.S. Department of Agriculture allowed the first two gene-edited cropsa mushroom that resists browning and a waxy cornon the market without going through the agency's regulatory process.
In general, new regulatory approaches are probably needed for both gene edited and genetically engineered crops. The National Academies says that it's a mistake that regulations are made based on the technology used to create crops, rather than making individual judgments based on the crops themselves. The Obama administration is now in the processing of reconsidering how federal agencies evaluate all biotech crops, drugs, and other products, especially in light of the explosion in gene editing to come.
University of Georgia crop and soil science professor Wayne Parrott, in a statement, possibly put it best. He said genetic engineering is neither a panacea nor is it a "dreaded monster." He said: "The inescapable conclusion, after reading the report, is that GE crops are pretty much just crops."
This article was written by Jessica Leber from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Investors Committed $15 Billion To Social Progress And Profit In 2015
description: Most investors today are interested in making lots and lots of money. And many people, as they earn lots of money, decide to give to charity. But somewhere between pure profit and pure charity is a relatively small but growing movement of investors who seek financial, environmental, and social returns of their investments all at once. They are called impact investors, and their ranks are continuing to grow.
Co.Exist has covered the emergence of the impact investing sector over the last decade, from something that no one had ever heard of to a phenomenon that governments around the world are now working to actively encourage.
The latest annual survey from the Global Impact Investor Network (GIIN) shows this strength. According to the organization, which surveyed 158 major impact investors, there are now at least $77 billion assets under management that qualify as impact investments, and a total of $15 billion committed in more than 7,500 deals in 2015 alone. This is not an estimate of the entire global market, which is difficult to measure, but a good idea of its strength. Importantly, nearly 90% of all respondents said the financial performance of their investments were "in line with or above expectations."
"The data show impact investing is no longer a nascent market," writes GIIN CEO Amit Bouri.
It's hard to compare this data to prior years' surveys, because the sample sizes were different. Still, the evidence points to slow growth. Prior years showed $60 billion under management in 2015, and $46 billion in 2014.
Impact investing includes many types of investments, ranging from community development funds and social impact bonds to early-stage startup equity. In the survey, private equity and private debt were the most popular forms of investment, with a small number using "pay-per-performance" programs that are receiving some attention from governments today.
The data are based on a survey of 158 impact investors, 80% from developed country markets, including fund managers, foundations, banks, pension funds, and development finance institutions. All represent impact investing organizations that have committed at least $10 million or closed five impact investing transactions.
The survey addressed the activities and needs of large institutions that do this kind of investing, but impact investing is very slowly opening up to less wealthy individuals, says Bouri. For example, in Chicago, the MacArthur Foundation Chicago Community Trust and the Calvert Foundation recently announced a $100 million fund that will lend money to nonprofits and community initiatives that would otherwise struggle. Individuals will be able to contribute to the fund in increments as low as $20.
This article was written by Jessica Leber from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Indonesian Startup Lets City Dwellers Play FarmVille In Real Life
description: Someone living in a high-rise in Jakarta may not have a balcony, let alone a garden plot for growing food. But an Indonesian startup is working to turn city dwellers into virtual farmers: Through the platform, called iGrow, someone can invest in seeds for an underemployed farmer in a rural area, and then get regular updates as the food grows. When the crop is sold, seed investors share in the profits.
"The main thing is [to] create food security for all people," says founder Iqbal Muhaimin. "We want people to participate in food security by making them say, 'I grew my own food.'"
Right now, fruits that are native to Indonesia are often imported from countries like Thailand. Though there is plenty of fertile land, small-scale farmers often struggle to get loans from banks to grow food. Muhaimin realized that he could help farmers circumvent banks and get loans directly from fellow citizens who want to support more local, organic food.
Unlike Kiva, or other funding platforms that let people give micro-loans, iGrow provides donors a return on investment. For an orchard of durian trees, which will start to bear fruit in year five, investors can expect to make roughly 18% a year. They can choose a payout or donate the proceeds to local charity. The profit can also be reinvested in another farm.
"Some people may do this happily to donate their money, but most of people still want return," says Muhaimin. "So we offer them both."
The company also works with farmers to develop skills in growing organic food, and with local markets to increase demand. "There is disintegration of three main resources of agriculture in Indonesia that have meant we are not capable to be self-sufficient in food," he says. "These three main resources are market, skills, and capital."
On the platform, investors can choose a cropmostly fruits, such as bananas, durian, or the deli water apple. (The company plans to expand to a variety of fruits, vegetables, and herbs, with an emphasis on healthy food; they won't support meat production). As the crop grows, an independent monitor goes to the farm and offers progress updates. When the crop is harvested, investors get another independent report.
Over the first two years of operation, the platform has given work to more than 2,000 farmers.
Though the website already looks a little like FarmVille, the startup is currently building an app that looks even more like the game, and will let people watch the steps of the process on their phone. Muhaimin says he wants to make farming "fun and easy." They're also working to expand internationally.
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The Future Of Worker-Owned Companies Is In The Hands Of Retiring Baby Boomers
description: The baby boomer generation is getting ready to retire. And, as it does, its business owners have a big decision to make: What do they do with their companies?
There are obvious options, of course, including selling to a competitor or asking a family member to take it overthough, increasingly, family members aren't interested in taking on family businesses. Or, these business owners could think about selling to people with a vested interest in the success of the enterprise and who know it as well as anyone: the workers.
Brendan Martin hopes boomers will increasingly consider the last option because he believes worker-owned companies are both more productive and more economically just. Martin's non-profit firm, The Working World, funds dozens of worker-owned companies and he believes they promote equality and improve communities.
"The only stakeholder invested enough to take over these businesses are the workers who depend on them for a livelihood, and the communities who depend on them for the benefit they have," he says. "Either these businesses close and we get sudden great unemployment, or we take an opportunity for wealth distribution and demographic inclusiveness."
Martin Staubus, a researcher at University of California San Diego's Rady School of Management, estimates 150,000 to 300,000 boomer-owner businesses a year could be ripe for conversion to worker ownership over the next 15 years. If boomers took the idea seriously, they could create a sea-change in business ownership structure in this countryand perhaps to no detrimental cost to themselves. Selling at least 30% of a company to its workers comes with a generous capital gains tax break.
Martin points to the example of A Child's Place, a flourishing day care center in Queens, New York. It is taking a loan from The Working World that will allow its 65-person staff to buy out the owners and keep the business running.
"Like many other retiring boomers, we worried A Child's Place might be downsized by a new owner or have to close," the owners, Linda and Gregory Coles, wrote recently in the Huffington Post. "Those looking to buy our business could not guarantee it would continue as a day care. So we decided to solve the problem in a way we never dreamed possible. We would sell A Child's Place to the very people we knew would take care of it best: the staff who worked there."
The Working World has made more than 1,000 investments in worker- and community-owned businesses. It currently has a $5 million fund, which it wants to expand to $20 million over the next year. What really makes it different from conventional finance, though, is not so much that it lends to cooperatives, it's that it lends on more cooperative terms. Its client businesses have to provide no collateral, and the fund is repaid only if the businesses make a profit and provide community benefit.
"We're not looking for moonshots, and we're not looking for easy exits," Martin says. "We're looking for long-term, slow wealth-building. There should be some growth, but there doesn't need to be extraordinary growth. We're looking for business that a normal community can run, and that lots of people understand."
Many of the businesses are in commodity crops, food grocery, clothing, shoes, and traditional activities like metal-working. Most are in the U.S., Argentina, or Nicaragua.
Martin says he has a different relationship with his clients than most fund managers. Because he charges lower rates of interest on loans and only gets a return when the business gets a return, the clients are more likely to communicate straightforwardly with him, he says.
A recent report from the Surdna Foundation argued that worker co-operatives and companies with employee share ownership programs tend to be more resilient to failure than other types of ownership structure. It also called for baby boomers to consider such options as they succession-plan in the next few years.
Meanwhile, Martin hopes The Working World can inspire other finance groups to adopt something like its approach. "We want to show ourselves as a model in hopes more capital gets into the game and more people are willing to steward capital from a community-benefit point of view. This is about the future of work and battling inequality in the future," he says.
All Photos (unless otherwise noted): via The Working World
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The Body-Positive Crime Novel Every Woman Must Read
description: This post goes out to the gross dude at Starbucks today who was pretending to read the alt weekly in front of him but who was actually eye-diddling the picture of a woman in a porny ad tucked just underneath. Because he should totally read Dietland, a kick-ass feminist revenge novel that comes out in paperback next week and was recently optioned as a TV series. (By the same woman who brought us the amazing Lifetime show UnReal!)You know who else should read Dietland? Every woman everespecially if you have ever felt body shamed, sexually objectified, or like you have to be thin to be worth something in this culture.
The main character a woman named Plum. She's fat, miserable, and working for an editor of a teen magazine who doesn't respect her. Things slowly get weirder and more exhilirating when she starts being followed by a girl in bright tights and combat boots. You find out that there's a secret feminist underground being operated out of the magazine's beauty closet and a Manhattan townhouse where you can detox from dieting and society's obsession with women's bodies.
Oh, and there's also a group of female vigilantes/terrorists that does things like drop rapists out of helicopters. You could describe it as The Devil Wears Prada meets Fight Club, with a solid dash of Our Bodies, Ourselves (which makes sense since the author worked as an editor and writer on the 2005 edition of the best-selling feminist guide to women's health).
Image: Sarai Walker Dietland is a full-on woman power revenge fantasy that will make you think and make you feel better about who you are right nownot two sizes, a new job, or 20 pounds from now. I came away from reading it with not only that rousing feeling you get after reading a really good book or seeing a great movie, but also a major fan of the author.So guess what? I asked her if we could chat a bit about the book and what its been like since she became the (unwilling) spokesperson for todays intersection of fatness and feminism:
Q: First, let me be honest: I avoided this book for a long time. I read novels for pleasure and as a body image/eating disorders advocate-type, I assumed this one would be more like homework! But then your writing was so fun and the plot was so juicyit was amazing, and I was so mad at myself for not reading it sooner. What are you most proud of about this book? That it says something important or that it's a freaking good read?
A: Somebody asked me once how I did thathave the book look at all these important issues about women but also make it fun. I don't really know to be honest! I didn't anticipate that people would see it this way and to this extent. It was very difficult to write. There were moments of exhilaration, but when you're writing a novel, it's going into this other world and being enveloped by it, and I resisted that pretty much every day I worked on it.
Q: I read your Facebook post where you tell the story of submitting a chunk of Dietland as part of the dissertation for your Ph.D. and how one of the douchebags grading you basically told you the book was crap. I'm so glad you didn't scrap it!
A: It took me 18 months to find an agent [to help me get it published] too. There's a really strong bias in publishing against any type of writing that's overtly political. Writing about fat and women's bodies is always a political issue. A lot of agents told me they liked the writing and they liked Plum, but they didn't like that the book didn't fit into a box. Dietland doesn't fit into an existing category, and it's been hard to market because it doesn't fit into a familiar framework.
Q: You wrote in a recent New York Times Op-Ed that you never expected to get so many questions about your personal experience as fat, about yourself and your own history, and the state of obesity in the world and weight stigma. And that you never wanted to be some kind of spokesperson for fat women or fat people in society. What do you want to be?
A: Because I'm a novelist, I wasn't expecting all of that to happen. If you write a memoir, it's like, OK, this is your real life, and you're putting it out there for people. But this is a novel so you don't necessarily expect that. I've learned that it takes so much courage to speak publicly as a fat woman. There's so much negativity and hostility. It makes me appreciate people who do this work and have been doing it for years.
Q: I miss Plum! Are you working on another book?
A: I am writing another book. It's not a sequel, though, sorry. But people will get more Plum since Dietland was optioned for TV. She'll continue on that way.
There you have it. If you're looking for a summer beach read that's a wild ride, but also has the potential leave you and the world a little bit better off than you were before you read it, you know what to do.
Sunny Sea Gold is Greatist's body image columnist and the author of Food: The Good Girl's DrugHow to Stop Using Food to Control Your Feelings (Berkley Books, 2011). The views expressed herein are hers. A health journalist by trade and training and a mom of two little girls, she's also an advocate and educator focused on reducing the rates childhood obesity and eating disorders by building Body-Positive Families. Reach out to her @sunnyseagold.
This article was written by Sunny Sea Gold from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: To Reduce Bias, What If Prosecutors Didn't Know The Race Of The People They Were Prosecuting?
description: In the United States, there are two systems of justiceone for white people, and one for everyone else. When compared to African- and Hispanic-Americans committing the same crimes, white Americans are less likely to be stopped by the police or arrested in either the adult or juvenile detention systems.
"Depending on who you getliterally which prosecutor you getyou could serve two years in jail or no time at all over a small crime."
Study after study confirms that bias permeates nearly every level of criminal justicefrom arrests to convictions to sentencingand that includes one group who holds a disproportionate amount of power when it comes to determining the specifics of criminal proceedings. Prosecutors have an absolutely huge amount of discretion in criminal cases, including power to determine whether to charge a defendant with a crime, the length of prison terms, and the specifics of plea deals. That last one is especially crucial considering that the vast majority of defendantsmore than 90%never go to trial, meaning that it's often up to a single prosecutor to decide how justice plays out.
"Depending on who you getliterally which prosecutor you getyou could serve two years in jail or no time at all over a small crime," says Shima Baughman, a professor at the University of Utah College of Law. "I don't think people really understand how this system works."
Flickr user Tim Evanson
Just like in every other area of the criminal justice system, bias rears its ugly head in plea bargaining deals and other prosecutorial decisions. White Americans, for example, are less likely to spend time in jail awaiting trial. By contrast, black Americans are more likely to have their probation revoked and receive plea deals that include prison time, while whites receive, on average, prison sentences that are about 10% shorter than those of racial minorities facing the same offenses.
Measuring how biased prosecutor offices are is tough since offices aren't required to collect or report that kind of data. A paper published in the journal Behavioral Science and Policy proposes an alternative solutionwhen possible, take race out of the equation entirely. Co-authored by Baughman and University of Arizona law professor Christopher Robertson, the paper proposes using automated electronic systems, paralegals, or other intermediaries to remove references to the race of the defendant prior to the prosecutor reviewing the case file. In a phone interview, Baughman added that the race of the victim(s) could also be removed as well as information on which neighborhood the crime occurred in. While prosecutors may figure out a defendant's race at some point in the legal process, blinding during the early stages could reduce bias in both decisions about what crimes to charge them with and what kind of plea bargain deals they're offered, says Sunita Sah, a behavioral ethics researcher at Cornell University and the paper's lead author.
"Just a slight reduction in bias could have huge effects, not just on people in prison, but also an effect on families and society in general."
"Just a slight reduction in bias could have huge effects, not just on people in prison, but also an effect on families and society in general," Sah says, adding that reducing bias could also improve the perceived legitimacy of the legal system. Sah's paper is just a proposal and did not measure current bias levels or evaluate the impact blinding prosecutors might have. "We need to pilot it and really see how this would work in the field," she says.
Blinding is already used in some areas of the criminal justice system, like eyewitness identifications. To prevent arresting officers from providing nonverbal cues that may guide an eyewitness to a certain suspect, lineups are frequently conducted by a law enforcement agent who has no knowledge of the case. In 2014, the National Academy of Sciences recommended that agencies institute double-blind lineups wherein neither the lineup administrator nor the witness knows which photo is the real suspect, or if the suspect is among the array of photos at all. Many agencies have adopted the practice, though it's not legally required. To reduce bias in federal capital cases (which are the minority as most capital cases are overseen by states), the Department of Justice requires the U.S. Attorney's Office to remove information about the defendant's race and ethnicity before submitting the case to the review committee that determines whether to seek the death penalty.
Flickr user Tom Woodward
Even with some precedent in place, Sah says that implementing racial blinding will be tough, and race will need to be considered in certain circumstances, like hate crime cases.
"There will for sure be challenges in implementing this. The first one is overcoming people's reactions to whether they need it or not," Sah says. "Other people will acknowledge that unconscious bias could have an effect and [blinding] sounds good in theory, but practically it's going to be difficult to implement."
Ezekiel Edwards falls into that latter group. Director of the ACLU's Criminal Law Reform Projectan initiative dedicated to reducing racial disparity in the justice system and challenging unconstitutional policies and practicesEdwards says that blinding prosecutors may work in some instances when charging a defendant with a crime but it would be very difficult to implement at other spots in the legal process.
"If you are a prosecutor gathering evidence and conducting eyewitness ID procedures or statements or trying to take confessions, you will know the race of the person," Edwards says. "At numerous other points along the line where decisions are made about what bail to ask for, whether or not to indict somebody, whether or not to add charges, how to strategize about what to do at trial, I think it'd be almost impossible to do this."
"Blinding sounds good in theory, but practically it's going to be difficult to implement."
Edwards agrees that further steps need to be taken to reduce bias, but believes that changing prosecutors themselves, through implicit bias training and improving diversity, are more practical options. The latter has become a major talking point in justice reform circles. While juries are supposed to represent a diverse segment of the population, prosecutors are overwhelmingly white. Research published last year by the Women Donors Network's Reflective Democracy Campaign found that 95% of elected prosecutors are white and 14 states don't have any elected prosecutors of color. That doesn't cover the entire profession (a very small handful of states fill district attorney slots by appointment), but it does cover a large chunk.
The United States is the only country in the world where prosecutors are elected, and the reasons for their racial uniformity are myriad and complicated. Socioeconomic barriers to entering the profession, the lack of diversity in top law schools, voter bias, and the fact that incumbent prosecutors rarely turn over (85% run unopposed) all factor in. The lack of diversity doesn't just impact individual defendants, as researchers from the Stanford Criminal Justice Center noted in a study of California's prosecutor offices. Those holding prosecutor positions often use those jobs as springboards to other elected offices, judicial appointments, or higher positions in the legal field. In other words, if prosecutor offices don't have people of color, there's a higher likelihood that positions with even more political or judiciary power won't either.
On top of improving diversity, Edwards says that the legal system should also make conscious efforts to increase cultural competency and regular meaningful interactions between prosecutors and the communities they serve. Step one, he says, is to encourage prosecutor offices to undergo assessments designed to evaluate possible bias in their practices.
"I frankly think there are probably prosecutor offices just like police departments that don't really want to know what the data's going to reveal, and they don't really want the public to know," Edwards says. "If they think about it long enough, they're probably worried that it's not going to look great."
This article was written by Christina Couch from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: These Classic London Phone Booths Are Turning Into Micro-Offices
description: For remote workers in London tired of working from coffee shops, one coworking company is about to launch another option: For the equivalent price of a couple of cups of coffee a week, it will be possible to temporarily rent a tiny (and private) office in an old, iconic phone booth.
Inside the booths, there will be a printer and scanner, power outlets, Wi-Fi, a 25-inch monitor, and free coffee and tea. Membership at the booths, called Pod Works, costs 19.99 a month (about $30) and will give access to more than 20 booths across the city.
Because of the size of the booths, and to keep the spaces available for as many people as possible, users get a warning after an hour of use, and then have to leave. "I would imagine some people would use it maybe once a week," says Jonathan Black, CEO of Bar Works, the company that will run the micro-offices. "People who need to prepare for a meeting, maybe people who want a bit of privacy when they're doing their emails."
Bar Works already runs coworking spaces out of nontraditional spacesold bars and restaurantsin New York City (and soon San Francisco). Black, who is from London, realized that the city's old phone booths could be put to better use, somewhat like in New York, where former pay phones have been replaced by free Wi-Fi hotspots.
"There are so many of these unused phone boxes now in the U.K., especially in London," he says. "When I looked into it, there's one call made per week from these call boxes. I thought they're in such good locations in terms of transport hubs, commercial centersif we were to put multipurpose work stations in these, then I could really see a good use."
Many of the iconic boxes, once owned by British Telecom, are landmarks, but had become covered in graffiti. "They've fallen into a state of disrepair, a lot of these boxes," says Black. "The beauty of this is providing a new use for these, and a kind of new lease on life."
It's one of several new uses for the classic phone booths. Another booth in London is now a salad bar, and others have turned into art projects or defibrillator stations.
Bar Works has leased 23 phone booths so far in London and plans to expand throughout the city and the U.K. as soon as it gets permission from planning commissions. The first mini-offices, which are being retrofitted now, will open this summer.
"It's transforming the iconic phone box and giving it a really good, interesting use," Black says.
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 8 Easy DIY Salad Dressings Better Than the Bottled Stuff
description: We know, we know: The simple fact that you're eating a salad makes you feel 100 times healthier. But if you're dousing your leafy greens with bottled dressing, you may be canceling out all their benefitsthanks to the highly processed oils, sugar, salt, and sketchy additives found in the store-bought stuff. And those fat-free dressings aren't doing you any favors, either: They've been shown to inhibit absorption of disease-fighting fat soluble antioxidants in certain veggies.
That's why it's totally worth the time to set aside five minutes to whip up your own better-tasting and healthier dressings. All you need is a large jarand maybe a forkfor the following no-fail formulas. From classic balsamic to smoky tahini, these dressings will add instant zing to your salads, as well as grain bowls, grilled meats, or pasta dishes.
Directions: The standard ratio for vinaigrettes is 3 parts oil to 1 part acid, like vinegar or citrus juice. (This is a flexible ratio, so use more oil if you like a richer dressing or vinegar if you prefer something more tart.) Combine all ingredients in a large jar, seal shut, and give a good shake. If needed, use a fork to whisk together the mixture so items like mustard, nut butter, and miso are better incorporated. Taste and adjust seasonings as desired.Note: Each recipe will make enough dressing for several salads. Store leftover dressing in the refrigerator for up to one week. If the dressing separates upon sitting, just give the jar a few shakes to recombine.
This article was written by Matthew Kadey R.D. from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This NSFW Video Shows That Condoms Can Be Sexy
description: Talking about protection might not seem sexy, but this videothe first episode in a new series called F*ck Yesproves that it can be extremely hot. The NSFW hookup scene is interrupted by hilarious and relatable commentary (just wait for the line about hairy legs), as well as the couple's realization that they don't have a condom. Instead of having unprotected sex, they discuss grabbing a condom from across the streetin a totally steamy, non-middle-school-health-class way. Safe, hot, and funny? We're sold.
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Kesha Gives Body Shamers the Middle Finger, and Its Pretty Inspiring
description: Kesha has had enough of body shaming. When she posted a series of intimate photos to Instagram earlier this week, a handful of commenterstrolls reallycalled her fat and claimed she used too much Botox. (To be fair, most of the comments were positive.) The next day she responded in true Kesha-like fashion with the middle finger.
The picture is badass, but her slightly NSFW caption is even better. Kesha opens up about her struggles with depression and an eating disorder, says she's taken back her life, and vows to not waste her time with body shamers. Check out the photo and the full caption below.
"I have been battling depression and an eating disorder for a while now. My career is in a strange place, and it feels like I'm fighting an uphill fight some days. But I have decided to take my life back. My freedom. My happiness. My voice. My worth. I will not just f*cking be quiet and hide. Today I will say f*ck it and live. So F********CK it. Today I'm making that choice. AND I'M HAPPY AS A DAMN CLAM. And also a big ol' f*ck u if u wanna hate on my body. Just remember that makes u look like a d*ckhead."
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Power Plant Emissions Fall to Lowest Level in Decades
description: Carbon dioxide emissions from electric power plants have fallen to their lowest level in decades, and that trend could help states meet their emissions goals under the Obama administrations Clean Power Plan if it survives court challenges, according to new U.S. Energy Information Administration data and a New York University analysis.
Carbon dioxide emissions from generating electricity in 2015 were 21 percent below 2005 levels in the U.S. The goal of the Clean Power Plan is to cut emissions by 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030, mainly from coal-fired power plants.
(Your browser doesn't support iframe)In raw numbers, generating electricity in the U.S. was the source of 1.9 billion metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions in 2015 roughly the same as in 1993. Emissions peaked in 2007, when the countrys power plants emitted 2.4 billion metric tons of carbon dioxide. By 2014, power plant emissions had dropped to about 2.05 billion metric tons.
Coal use is the largest single contributor to emissions causing climate change. The Clean Power Plan, which the U.S. Supreme Court has put on hold while legal challenges have their day in court, was critical to establishing U.S. credibility during the Paris climate talks last year. States have until September 2018 to decide how to cut emissions under the plan.
{related}
The electric power sectors carbon emissions are falling for several reasons. Warmer winters in the U.S., influenced by global warming, have reduced the need for people to heat their homes, driving down electric power demand in the winter months, according to the EIA.
There is also a basic shift in how electricity is generated from coal to natural gas and renewables, EIA analyst Channele Wirman said.
Low natural gas prices have encouraged utilities to shutter coal-fired power plants and build new ones that run on natural gas, which emit roughly half the carbon dioxide as those that use coal. Wind, solar and other renewables helped to cut emissions even more. A decade ago, 8 percent of U.S. electricity came from renewables. Last year, they were the source of 13 percent of the countrys electricity.
A power plant in New York City.
Credit: m01229/flickr
All of that adds up to two things: cleaner air and more climate-friendly electricity.
Even without the Clean Power Plan in effect, market factors like the low price of natural gas and the declining cost of renewable generation technologies are pushing states toward a cleaner energy mix, Jack Lienke, senior attorney at NYUs Institute for Policy Integrity, said.
For example, natural gas is expected to overtake coal this year as the nations chief source of electricity, a tax credit is expected to fuel widespread wind and solar power expansion over the next decade and the declining economics of coal are spurring a move toward cleaner energy, according to the institutes analysis.
The trend toward low-carbon electricity means that states will have a leg up in meeting the Clean Power Plans goals even if the plan itself is delayed by the courts.
But there is no guarantee the economics pointing to long-term growth in clean energy will be continue for a long time, and the if the Clean Power Plan survives court challenges, it will help provide certainty for electric power companies if the economic winds change quickly, Lienke said.
That certainty is helpful to companies and states making long-term investments in clean energy, and its helpful to the U.S. in international climate negotiations, he said.
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: These Men Strip Down to Reveal the Bodies You Don't See on TV
description: In celebration of Body Positivity Week, BuzzFeed asked more than a dozen men to bare it all (well, almost everything) and talk about their personal struggles with body image. It's super refreshing and sobering to see men from all walks of life share these personal stories.
Here are two teasers. Be sure to click the button at the bottom to see the whole series:Photo: Taylor Miller/BuzzFeedPeople find reasons to not appreciate bigger people because they think they look unhealthy. I say we tell those people to get out of the unhealthy mindset of disrespecting others and celebrate beauty for all.
Kyle
Photo: Taylor Miller/BuzzFeed Ive been told, Your scar wont get you any bookings or work. You will have to always cover [it] up and on top of that you are black.
JimmyClick below to see more inspiring photos and stories.
I Want to See the Rest!
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: What Meat Eaters Would Sound Like If They Talked Like Vegans
description: How do you know if someone is vegan? Don't worry, they'll tell you. Sure, the saying doesn't hold true for most vegans, but as a group, they've developed the reputation of being loud and proud. That's what makes this video from AwakenWithJP so hilarious. It imagines if meat eaters talked like stereotypical vegans. The video is a little heavy-handed at times, but we couldn't help but laugh at lines like, Yeah, I want the tofu spring rolls, except I dont eat tofu, so do you have like a tofu-flavored chicken you can substitute in for me?
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The Internet Puts This Guy in His Place for Shaming a Woman at the Gym
description: We'll be the first to admit we're guilty of gawking at others at the gym. (How do you think we figured out how all the machines work?) But the other sweaty Bettys fade into the background as we blast our music and focus on crushing our workout.
That doesn't seem to be the case for this guy, who secretly filmed a woman working out and tried to shame her with the caption "TF she doing." (For those of you who don't keep up with the terms kids are using these days, "TF" stands for "the fuck." Pleasant, right?) The video went viral on the website Worldstar Hip Hop:
She's actually doing a legit exercisethe Jefferson Squatbut thats beside the point. It's never acceptable to film someone without their permission, and were thankful most commenters agree that this is a toxic, all-too-common practice. Here are some of our favorite replies:
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This App Translates Menus Into Photos Of Delicious Dishes
description: Did you ever try to read a menu in a foreign language? Even if you speak some of that language, and understand the words, you might still have no idea what kind of dish they refer to.
As an example, we can look at things in the other direction. Imagine you're coming from China, a country with a completely different kind of cuisine, and you read a menu in English. What the hell is rice pudding? Mac and cheese? We all know that "mash" means "mashed potatoes," but even Google Translate won't help you there.
That's where MenuMe, an Android app, comes in. You point the phone's camera at a menu and instead of translating, it finds a photo and shows it to you.
MenuMe was built recently at the TechCrunch Disrupt NY hackathon, so it's not ready for the Google Play store just yet, but the principle is simple enough to be fairly robust. It doesn't even need to translate anythingit just needs to recognize the text from your phone's camera and run an image search on it. After that, MenuMe displays the images floating over the menu on your screen. The team's original idea was to make an app that would scan the text in books and turn it into images, but they soon switched to menus, a much more practical idea.
There's actually already an Android app with the same name, which shows you photos of the actual dishes from the menus of participating restaurants, but that only works if the restaurant, or somebody else, makes the pictures available, and isn't much good for daily specials.
Of course, this augmented reality is only as good as the results of its image search. You might end up with some rather unappetizing versions of the dishes on the menu.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The Science-Backed Way to Maintain Weight Loss
description: Losing weight is hard, but that's just step one toward a healthier life. The harder part is keeping the weight off year after year. We saw that struggle firsthand with a recent study that looked at contestants from one season of The Biggest Loser. All but one regained most (if not all) the pounds they lost.1
In the weeks that followed the publication of The Biggest Loser study, many people offered advice for long-term weight loss (heck, we did too). One new, comprehensive study has a simple solution: Join (and stick with) a community weight-loss program (think Weight Watchers or Jenny Craig).
Researchers at the University of Colorado followed more than 65,000 participants in Take Off Pounds Sensibly, a nonprofit group, for five years. They found that 90 percent of people who stuck with the group for more than three years maintained their weight loss. It makes sense: The other members add motivation and accountability. So it's worth thinking twice about canceling your membership to one of these clubs once you reach your goal.
Works Cited
Persistent metabolic adaptation 6 years after "The Biggest Loser" competition. Fothergill E, Guo J, Howard L. Obesity (Silver Spring, Md.), 2016, May.;():1930-739X.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Empower Mint, A New Ben & Jerry's Flavor, Protests The Dough In Politics
description: You can now enjoy gooey brownie dough in your Ben & Jerry's peppermint ice cream, while taking a small stand against the corruption that exists in our political system today.
Empower Mint, the quirky brand's newest flavor, is being launched nationally this week in conjunction with a campaign to support the NAACP's get out the vote efforts, protest voter suppression laws, and dark money in politics.
The ice creama peppermint with fudge and brownie swirlssounds delicious, and it goes part and parcel with the activism effort.
"We're really focusing on building a better, more representative, and functioning democracy," says Ben & Jerry's activism manager Chris Miller, who will launch the brand's campaign, "Democracy is in Your Hands," at an even in North Carolina today with the state's NAACP chapter. An unspecified percentage of the profits go to supporting the organization's efforts, he says.
North Carolina has been among many states to take measures to make voting harder in the last few years. A bill the state passed in 2013 reduced early voting and required a photo ID at the ballot, among other provisions that are known to suppress voting, especially among low-income, minority, and immigrant populations. Miller calls it an "incredibly regressive package of voting laws" in a prominent swing state, "ground zero" for the fight for voting rights.
The limited edition ice cream is going to be part of the company's year-long effort to register at least 30,000 voters and a call for customers to demand that Congress reauthorize landmark civil rights legislation, the Voting Rights Act of 1965.
In 2013, the Supreme Court struck down a key part of the act, calling it out of date and asking Congress to modernize the legislation. Congress has so far failed to act, even though the legislation was reauthorized a decade ago under President Bush in a 99-0 vote in the Senate. "It has always been profoundly un-partisan," says Miller. "Unfortunately, it is currently mired in deep partisanship."
Miller says that while Ben & Jerry's is deeply political and vocal about causes, it does not endorse or give any money to political parties or candidates (though founder Ben Cohen has, independent of the brand, created a flavor supporting Bernie Sanders.) Ben & Jerry's is owned by parent company Unilever, which also has a posted policy that none of its companies should directly or indirectly give to politicians, which is laudable for a large corporation in the Citizens United era. Still, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, Unilever does exert its influence through an $800,000 federal lobbying budget in 2015 and has given some donations to politicians in the past. It also spent nearly $500,000 to help defeat California's GMO labeling bill in 2013.
Miller prefers companies take a stand through their public platform. He applauds that companies have spoken out against North Carolina's recent transgender bathroom law, and he hopes more companies will take a stand to support democracy. "The corporate voice is a powerful one and is one of the most important political voices of our time," he says.
This article was written by Jessica Leber from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Marine Parks Help Global Fish Stocks Withstand Warming
description: New and expanded marine parks and fishing rules could be powerful antidotes for threats of famine as fisheries dwindle from climate change and overfishing, new research has shown.
An ambitious new analysis of big marine data produced from thousands of dives by citizen scientists worldwide has detected a powerful link between the biodiversity of a coral or rocky reef and the size of the fisheries it supports.Fishing restrictions can help fisheries cope with climate change, new research shows.
Credit:Thangaraj Kumaravel/Flickr
Biodiversity
the number of species and how different they are
is as important as climate to global production of fish, said Emmett Duffy, a Smithsonian Institution scientist who led the analysis, published Monday in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. This was a big surprise."
Previous research has linked climate change with biodiversity declines in the oceans. The new findings show that means warming could also reduce fish stocks, which have been falling as fishermen reach deeper into the oceans for their hauls.
The findings come as the U.S. and other countries create new marine parks to protect ocean biodiversity, and as the world strives through a new United Nations treaty to stem runaway climate pollution. Most of the extra heat from global warming ends up in the oceans.
{related}
The U.N. says the worlds fishing fleets are either fully exploiting or already overexploiting 80 percent of monitored fish stocks.
Duffy and four other researchers compared the estimated weights of fish stocks in reefs around the world with a long list of environmental factors, such as nearby human population size, sea-surface temperatures, temperature variability and nutrient pollution. The data came from the global Reef Life Survey project.
Coral and rocky reefs are of special interest to marine ecologists because they serve as nurseries for fish stocks. Research published earlier this year showed Great Barrier Reef coral recover from storms, predators and bleaching more quickly in areas where fishing is banned, helping to restore the natural habitat thats relied upon by fisheries.
The strongest relationships the scientists discovered in these reef ecosystems were between fish stocks and biodiversity and temperature.
This suggest that changes in biodiversity are likely to be on a similar scale in terms of their impacts as climate change, Duffy said. Biodiversity seems to protect fish communities against climate change.
The findings add urgency to efforts underway through the United Nations to protect at least 10 percent of the global ocean from fishing and other industrial activities by 2020. So far, less than half that amount has been protected.
Meanwhile, U.N. negotiations began this year in an attempt to regulate fishing on the high seas for the first time. The high seas lie outside of national territories, where fisheries can be legally plundered because domestic laws do not apply. They cover about half of the planet.
Catherine Kilduff, a former marine scientist who now works as an attorney for the nonprofit Center for Biological Diversity, said the new findings are scientific evidence that we need biodiversity
not just to benefit wildlife, but to protect fisheries that humans depend upon.Reef Life Survey diver surveying fish in the Coral Sea.
Credit:Graham Edgar
The key finding is that biodiversity is the cornerstone of ocean health
and that rings really true for me, Kilduff said. We need to do everything we can to promote biodiversity, and the question is how to do that.
The study was the latest piece of evidence from big-data crunching in support of ecologists long-held theory that biodiversity protections are key to supporting large and healthy fisheries. That theory has underpinned efforts to expand ocean protections.
Whats been done in the past were fairly small scale experiments, said Andrew Brooks, a University of California, Santa Barbara scientist who researches marine fish populations. Theres alway uncertainty as to whether it really scales up. What were really doing now, which has only been possible in the recent past, is were gathering up data.
Brooks contributed to a study published in 2011 that reached similar conclusions regarding the relationship between biodiversity and fisheries size, and to another study that hasnt yet been published.
All three papers are generally in agreement that in areas with higher biodiversity, you tend to see higher levels of biomass, Brooks said.
Brooks said that once biodiversity has been lost from an ocean, its very difficult to replace, suggesting it would be more efficient to protect the ecosystems that foster fish stocks now than try to restore them later.
Increasing biodiversity is hard, Brooks said. Its all about preventing the loss of biodiversity.
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Older Workers Are Basically Planning To Keep Working Forever
description: When we talk about an aging population, and the problems of social security and health care for an increasingly aged country, we make one false assumption: That everybody will retire. In fact, the opposite is true. More people near or past retirement age are working than ever before, and manyperhaps the majorityare actually making a career change.
It's mostly about money. People aren't retiring because they can't afford to, says a new survey by the AP-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research, based on 1,075 interviews with U.S. residents ages 50 and over.
The most surprising findings are those regarding planned career changes. Forty-one percent of respondents over 60 said they plan to switch career fields, and almost half (49%) will switch employers. The figures are lower for those over 50, which shows that the older we get, the more likely we are to seek out a new career. That said, older respondents were also less likely to actually search for a job.
This desire for folks to switch careers just when we're expecting them to leave employment altogether is accompanied by a high level of job training and extra education. Thirty-seven percent of respondents have gotten on-the-job training, or gone back to school, within the last five years. This training is sometimes done because its a job requirement but its equally likely that these old folks did it to "learn something new or just for fun."
And yet despite the willingness to switch careers, and the plentiful training, older folks aren't confident about their job skills. Only 31% say they are "extremely or very confident they have the necessary skills to compete for jobs." But it might not be their skills that are the problemafter all, who has more experience and accumulated skills than somebody on the verge of retirement? The problem may be employers, who are still biased against hiring people of age.
According to the AP NORC survey, "A majority (60%) of those who have tried looking for a job in the past five years say it was either moderately difficult or very difficult to find one." Finding a job is never easy, but for those surveyed, the hunt was so difficult that one third of older job seekers gave up the search.
Even without career changes and training, the fact is that more and more of us aren't retiring. For a lucky few, it's because we don't want towe may have jobs we love so much we'll keep at them until we die, or at our minds and bodies are no longer up to the task. But the majority can't afford to stop working: 55% of adults over 50 plan to keep working past 65, or are already doing so.
Often, it's because the bills aren't stopping anytime soon: Many of those surveyed pay housing, education, medical, or other financial support for someone who is other than their spousemostly children and grandchildren.
It's not all bad news though. Many workers cut their hours instead of retiring fully, which leaves them not only financially better off, but able to enjoy both more free time, as well as keeping a connection to the world of employment that they've know their whole life. Not everybody is equipped for, or even wants, days and days without anything to fill them but sudoku.
But skipping retirement because you want to keep working is one thing. Being forced to keep toiling as your body begins to slow down or even fail you is another. At least if we start telling today's younger workers that they'll never retire, then they'll have time to get used to the idea.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Why Getting Divorced in My 20s Was the Right Move for Me
description: The worst night of my life started with pad Thai and cheap white wine. It was an ordinary Friday, which meant my husband and I were, as usual, throwing obscenities back and forth at each other.
After three years together, our arguments had swelled to a point where the only exit was separationthe culmination of a slow, painful process for both of us. I cant even remember what we were fighting about that night, but it was probably something old and rehashed.
I do remember my exhaustion. I remember my heart burning in my chest, hot like a coal. Something in me just knew wed reached the end of the road. I knew it was impossible to continue this way.
When the front door angrily slammed shut for the last time, the echo was final. This is it, it whispered. There was no turning back. That night, I cried on the bathroom floor, thinking that my life was over. I was in my early 20s. I had no money. I was basically alone, living in Australia while my family was back in the U.K. I thought I had lost everything. I felt like I had been pushed off a cliff.
I tried to tell myself I wasnt scared, but I was terrified. I couldnt deny the fear I felt about the drastic change coming my waymy future without him, utterly unknown. I wondered repeatedly what was going to happen to me.
Somehow, an inner strength stirred within me on that cold bathroom floor that evening. It spoke softly and told me what I needed to do.
Healing After Heartbreak
There is nothing like a huge heartbreak early in life to prove you can survive some serious sh*t. For all that it took away from methe life Id planned, a partner, a homethe crushing experience also gave back many things.
It taught me resilience.
It taught me to be more cautiousI lost the reckless abandon with which I used to dispense trust.
It taught me to be independent. I had no choice but to become self-reliant in every single way, from fixing a leaking kitchen sink to killing spiders. I now consider self-reliance to be the ultimate art.
I learned that withdrawing from lifeeven temporarilydoes not stop life from happening.
It taught me about real friendship toothe people who really care about you when youre too confused and tired to care for yourself. I remember being so grateful to one friend in particular, Claire, who dragged me, red-eyed and snotty, to her house for dinner after Id been in bed all day (I used to lie there and wait for night to come so that I could sleep again to escape my pain). As I watched people laugh and clink glasses, I learned that withdrawing from lifeeven temporarilydoes not stop life from happening.
Most importantly, though, it taught me one simple, calm, undramatic lesson: Acceptance is the key to serenity. Unconditional, resolute, underrated acceptance.
The Power of AcceptanceBefore the breakdown of my marriage, I believed in two ideals. First, I believed love conquers all. Second, I believed if you loved another person enough, you could change them. But neither was true.
Love doesnt conquer addiction. Love does not erase lies. Love is not a substitute for trust, and love does not necessarily equate to a healthy relationship. Put simply, love is not enough (neither is sex).
I used to rebel and disagree when people said, You cant change a man. It made me crazy. Wasnt I enough? Why was I failing at this? I tried everythingtalking, counseling, and even changing myself. Nothing worked.
The problem was me. My resistance to acceptance.
I finally accepted that I couldnt change my husbands values or behavior through love or counseling or anything else.
After my divorce, I finally accepted that I couldnt change my husbands values or behavior through love or counseling or anything else. And he could not change mine. This realization was the biggest weight lifted from my weary, young shoulders. I was not responsible for two peopleI was responsible for me.
Acceptance was freeing and, after some time and perspective, elating. As Cheryl Strayed writes in Brave Enough, Most things will be OK eventually, but not everything will be. Sometimes youll put up a fight and lose. Sometimes youll hold on really hard and realize there is no choice but to let go.
In a divorce, there are no winners and losers. There are just people who try like crazy (as I did). I put up a fight and lost. But man, did I try. And I gained a massive dose of sobering sensibility, which has spilled into other areas of my lifefrom bad bosses to toxic friendships. I am not the judge and jury on how other people should conduct their lives. But I am responsible for my decisions and whom I let in.
The Takeaway
I wish I could hug that sad, scared girl from that night and tell her everything turns out OK. I wish I could tell her she would be just fine (eventually). Even though it hurts like hell, resisting the truth and remaining in an unhealthy relationship is far, far worse.
Acceptance and trust, in all of its quiet glory, will save you. Tune into your inner voice and turn up the volumeit will always tell you what you need to let go of in your life: a person, a negative thought, a harmful belief. Accepting your inner voice of reason is the best first step to actually accepting yourself. And you will always steer yourself in the right direction.
Susie Moore is Greatists life coach columnist and a confidence coach in New York City. Sign up for free weekly wellness tips on her website and check back every Tuesday for her latest No Regrets column!
This article was written by Susie Moore from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: A New Food Label Supports Farmers As They Transition To Organic
description: If farmers want to go organic, they face a major challenge: It takes three years of meeting strict standards before crops can be certified organic. In the meantime, farmers have to deal with steep learning curves and costs without earning any more for the food they're growing.
It's one of the reasons that despite huge demand for organic food, organic farming is still a tiny fraction of agriculture overalland food brands that use organic ingredients struggle to find a supply.
A new "transitional organic" certification is designed to help. When consumers see the label at the grocery store, it's a way to support farmers in the process of becoming fully organic.
Kashi, a brand known for its organic cereals and snacks, helped push for the certification. "We really wanted to raise awareness about the barriers that farmers are facing when they're converting to organic, and just give consumers and the industry a tangible way to support that transition," says Nicole Nestojko, senior director of supply chain and sustainability at Kashi.
The inspiration came from a visit to an organic farm two years ago, when the company was talking to the farmer about the challenges of organic farming.
"The farmer said, 'As a consumer, I would really like a way to support farmers in transitionI would be more likely to support a farmer in transition than a farmer who is already organic,'" says Nestojko. "This is coming from an organic farmer. That was when the lightbulb went off."
Kashi partnered with Quality Assurance International, the leading organic food certifier, to create a new protocol for certifying farms in transition. The certification, and the label that shows up at grocery stores, is open to any brand because it likely will take the entire industry's participation to make a difference.
A new cereal, Kashi's Dark Cocoa Karma Shredded Wheat Biscuits, is the first to feature an ingredient (wheat) with the certification. Farmers with the transitional label will be paid a little more for their crops. It's also a way to educate consumers about the fact that the three-year transition exists.
"We know this is a critical problem," she says. "We wanted to address that with a consumer-facing, market-driven solution."
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Germany Just Produced So Much Renewable Power, It Had to Pay People To Use It
description: On Sunday, May 8, sun and wind energy was so bountiful in Germany, that the utility had to pay people to use it all up. Due to weather conditions that day, the combined spike caused renewable to make up 87% of the country's total energy consumption, if only briefly.
"This day shows again that a system with large amounts of renewable energy works fine." Christoph Podewils of the think tank Agora Energiewende told Quartz.
The result was that Germany's power energy prices were actually negative for a few hours that Sunday, so if you weren't out windsurfing on a lake, or working on your tan, then you could have been paid for the electricity you used.
Agora tracks energy production and usage in Germany, and you can explore custom charts that visualize the power generated and consumed over any time period. Overall, Germany produces around a third of its electricity from renewables, with wind energy seeing the biggest growth recently. In 2015, Agora reports that wind power production rose 50% from the previous year.
Germany is also the European Union's biggest user of coal, and coal use is still rising along with renewables, mostly because coal is replacing natural gas as a power source.
Like other European countries, Germany exports its excess electricity, and imports it when there generation falls below the country's requirements. The chart shows the numbers for Sunday May 8. You can see the spike in production at around midday, with a corresponding dip in price at 2 p.m.
In terms of renewables mix, though, Germany still has a way to go to beat Denmark, which is on track to get half its power from wind turbines, and even ran for a whole day last September without any of its regular power stations being in operation.
Which is to say, renewables are not only the future of power generation, they're also its present. All across Europe, solar and wind are contributing huge percentages to the grid. This makes the short-sighted actions of Spain, the U.K., and Poland, which are variously trying to curtail renewables by withdrawing subsidies or wrapping them in red tape, seem all the more pathetic.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: These Students Are Developing Bacteria That Eats Our Plastic Pollution
description: While most of us spent our student years working a little and partying quite a bit, Miranda Wang and Jeanny Yao have used their time for something more productive: developing bacteria that can break down ocean-bound plastic waste. Having first worked on the problem in high school, they have since filed two patents, founded a company, and raised about $400,000. They're still only 22 and 21 years old.
The students recently picked up the latest in several awards: the $30,000 Perlman Grand Prize at the 2016 Wharton Business Plan Competition. That and four other prizes from Wharton: the Wharton Social Impact Prize, the Gloeckner Undergraduate Award, the Michelson People's Choice Award, and the Committee Award for Most "Wow Factor." They're the first undergraduates to win the Perlman, and the first students to win all five awards, according to the University of Pennsylvania (home to Wharton business school).
The reason for all the fuss is obvious. Plastic pollution in the oceans is a massive problem, and Wang and Yao have the beginnings of a viable solution for at least part of it. They have a prototype for breaking down polystyrene into CO2 and water, and they see their technology being used in two waysfirst, for landfill and beach cleanups, and, second, to create a secondary product to be used in textile manufacturing.
"It's going to be nearly impossible to get people to stop using plastic," says Wang. "We need real technology to break it down. Everything in nature should be biodegradable."
The process first uses a solvent to dissolve the plastic, then enzymes catalyze depolymerization of its base chemicals, breaking it down into the more manageable compounds. Wang envisages sending mobile clean-up stationseither a truck or a floating vesselwith a 150,000 liter bio-digester onboard. Workers could then load up the tanks with polystyrene and wait for the waste to degrade. The aim is to get the process down to as little as 24 hours. (Other processes, including these mealworms, take longer and don't break down the whole waste stream.)
"The idea is there's no need to collect the plastic and ship it to some centralized location. This plastic is very lightweight, so transporting even one kilogram of it would take a huge amount of volume and be very unsustainable in terms of transportation," Wang says.
Wang and Yao's company is called BioCellection. They aim to start field-testing this summer, hopefully in China, and to finalize a commercially viable process within two years. Wang hopes to remove about nine grams of plastic per liter of bacteria. She estimates that each 150,000 liter container of bacteria will cost about $20,000.
Between finishing her studies at Wharton and setting up the company, Wang isn't getting much sleep. I called her a little later than we'd arranged and found she's been napping in the spare moments. But BioCellection seems like a good thing to be losing sleep over: We badly need to find ways to break down all the stray plastic out there.
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Pop-Up Floating Bridge Will Let New Yorkers Walk On The Water To Governors Island
description: Two hundred years ago, when the tide was low enough, it was possible to walk from part of Brooklyn to Governors Islanda small island 400 yards awayon a sandbar. Then the waterway was dredged to make way for commercial shipping. But a Brooklyn-based artist is trying to temporarily reconnect a pedestrian path, through a floating bridge that would pop up for one day each summer.
"It's trying to refocus New Yorkers' attention on the waterway as a public space that's there for them," says artist Nancy Nowacek.
While it's possible to visit Governors Island on a ferry now, the art project is designed to bring peopleliterallycloser to the water, separated from the surface by only a few feet. "Riding in ferries is like riding on the subway," she says. "The transportation can override the experience of being on the water. For me, the important thing about the bridge is that it will bring all those who cross it into a different kind of relationship with the water."
As someone crosses, they'll be able to stop and look around. "The experience with the bridge is meant to allow people to walk out into the harbor and pause," she says. "And stand in the middle of the harbor and really see themselves as citizens of this waterborne city rather than a city that's made of asphalt and concrete."
Nowacek has spent four years working with engineers on a design that can handle the curves of the waterway and the forces as tides shift in the estuary. Engineers are currently designing a modular system with floating sections of bridge that connect to anchorage platforms; the length of each section is based on the rigidity and flexibility needed because of conditions on the water. In previous prototypes, a plywood platform floated on barrels, and then foam. Now, the engineers plan to replace the foam, to protect aquatic life from any potential negative effects. The new prototype will be the team's seventh design.
Working to get permission for the bridgefrom as many as eight agenciesis equally challenging. "No one's written regulations in the city for a floating pedestrian bridge," she says.
In a Kickstarter campaign, she's crowdfunding a proof-of-concept span to test operations, safety, and logistics. By the end of the summer of 2017, if all goes well, she hopes to launch the full bridge for a day. For the two weeks before and after the event, she'll work with various partners to host other events connected to the water, celebrating everything from boat-building to oyster farming.
"New Yorkers can, in a way, go to camp and learn about the waterways," she says.
Her goal is to inspire others to reconsider how the water might be used. "I'm hoping this project will catalyze a whole new set of uses for the waterway that we haven't even thought of yet," she says.
After the day-long bridge is taken downand before it goes up again the next summerit could potentially travel to other cities. "It can go on as modular pieces and be used by other people," she says. "The thing I don't want to happen is that we call a lot of raw materials into being and then they sit somewhere in a warehouse. That's the worst-case scenario for me for so many reasons."
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The Best States And Cities For The Clean Tech Economy
description: In 2010, only one state generated 10% of its energy from renewable sources. Now, 14 states exceed 10% renewables that aren't hydropower.
Iowa, South Dakota, and Kansas now get 31%, 25%, and 24% respectively from renewables (mostly from wind). California gets more than 10% just from solar (all types), while Hawaii is at 7%.
"The transition to a clean energy economy over the past seven years is remarkable," says Ron Pernick, managing editor of the Clean Edge research firm, in a press release. Half of the top-10 states for clean electricity, including Idaho, North Dakota, and Oklahoma, are "red states," he points out.
Clean Edge's new U.S Clean Tech Leadership Index ranks states and metropolitan areas across multiple areas, including how much clean electricity they generate, how they mandate for energy production, what they offer in tax breaks and subsidies, and how much capital they're raising for renewable energy businesses.
California, predictably, dominates the state ranking. And it's home to the top three cities as well: San Francisco, San Jose, and San Diego. Massachusetts comes next, with Vermont in third (up from 15th overall in 2013). Oregon, New York, and Colorado follow. Hawaii, which has risen nine places in seven years, in 10th overall.
California is top for hybrid and electric vehicle adoption, with Hawaii, Georgia, and Washington following. Massachusetts comes out on top as a place to raise money and do research.
On the metro side, after the top three California cities, we have Portland (abundant clean energy); Washington, D.C., (high number of green buildings); Los Angeles (EVs); Boston (buildings); Seattle (electrifying its transit); Austin (high venture capital numbers); and Chicago (strong on green buildings).
The rankings give an impression of where business, government, and research is working hardest on clean tech development, and it's clearly centered in a few states and metropolitan areas. These areas need to be expanded if the whole country is to see the benefits of green energy, building, and transport going forward.
Cover Photo: Jon Bilous via Shutterstock
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The Body Part I'm Most Self-Conscious About Is the One People Admire
description: I have a confession to make that might get me into some trouble. Alas, in the name of female empowerment and in the interest of transparency, here it goes: I'm not particularly fond of my legs.
For as long as I can remember, my gams have had a nickname that reference their size. I've run the gamut from "Thunder Thighs" to "Quadzilla," and while I do embrace my body as a whole and love it so completelymy legs wouldn't be something I'd pick out as my favorite. And while most people tend to look at abs as a marker of physical progress, I admire other women's legs.
When people ask me what I like most about my body, I usually say my shoulders (my softball nickname was "Delts of Doom" for good reason) or my back. They're the parts that I am comfortable showing off, the parts that are never the cause of anxiety or lamentation. My legs, however, are another story.
Don't get me wrong, I adore their strength and muscularity. I love that I can squat 200 pounds and deadlift 300. I relish how fast I can sprint (especially for a hobbit-size girl) and how I make standing yoga poses my b*tch. These babies are built for performance, there's no doubt about that. Aesthetically, though, I spent years hiding them as I was self-conscious of their girth. Shorts?! Eff no. Those were not a part of my wardrobe.These days, although I wear my Quadzilla badgeand cut-off shortswith genuine pride, I'm still not the biggest fan of my legs. When I gain fat, that's where it goes, and oftentimes that means the difference between jeans fitting snuggly or failing to fit at all.
So when people compliment my gams, I am sincerely taken aback.
This happened to me recently while working out at Gold's Gym in Venicethe mecca of bodybuilding. A fellow gym-goer tapped me on the shoulder. As I removed my headphones, I was confronted by an unexpected question from a tall, muscular dude, How many days a week do you train legs? Because I want my legs to look like yours." Quadzilla strikes again! There were several follow-up questions about exercises and rep schemes, to which I answered, "It depends," "Heavy," and "I train my legs every time I train."
I'm not sure if my advice was helpful to him at all or if he really even intended to put it to use. But what I am sure of is how I felt when I walked out of the gym that day: utterly perplexed. I reflected on this interaction the entire bike ride home. My legs? You want your legs to look like my legs? It was something I just couldn't wrap my head around.
Alas, this led me to a realization that I believe is important to all of us: What we see in the mirror is often not what the rest of the world sees. You can characterize this as body dysmorphia or simply attribute it to proximity bias. Either way, there's a disconnect between what we see and what everyone else sees.As I mentioned, my legs are not my favorite, but the thing I get the most compliments on? You guessed itdem legz. Yet I am so hard on myself and so absurdly self-conscious about my legs that I fail to see them the way others do.
Since coming to this realization, I've made a conscious effort to give my lower body some much-needed love. I challenge them more physically and show them off more often. While I'm still sometimes hesitant to expose them, I also have a sense of growing pride and acceptance about them.
It's a process, of course. One that takes regular practice and often involves two steps forward and one step back. I don't always gravitate immediately to the positive and sometimes I have to check myself. After all, I spent the better part of 30 years hating my legs and change of this magnitude doesn't happen overnight.
But all in all, I feel freefree from self-deprecation and undue apprehension, free from wardrobe limitations and fitting room frustration. And most of all, free from a life-long hatred of my own flesh. After all, life is too short to be so damn hard on our bodies.
This article originally appeared on NegharFonooni.com and was republished with the author's permission. Neghar Fonooni is a fitness and lifestyle coach who's passionate about empowering women through strength. The views expressed herein are hers. Follow her on Instagram and Twitter.
This article was written by Neghar Fonooni from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 20 Easy and Tasty Whole30 Lunch Recipes
description: We gave you Whole30 breakfast ideas. Then we rounded up Whole30 dinner recipes. Did you really think wed leave you hanging for lunch? Not a chance!
Thanks to crazy weekday schedules, lunch is often as neglected as breakfast. Add the pressure of toting a homemade Whole30-friendly dish to workand it can seem easier to just say eff it and forego lunch hour altogether.
But since skipping meals isn't the best idea, we want to make sure you can fuel up properly without straying from the program. Take your pick from the dishes below.
PoultryPhoto: The Healthy Maven1. Loaded Guacamole Sweet Potato Fries
This take on loaded fries may not be an exact replica of the popular pub lunch, but you may find you actually prefer it to the original. Replacing dairy with the heart-aiding fatty acids of guac and throwing romaine lettuce in for some extra vitamins, the Whole30-compliant update is incredibly fresh-tasting and wont send you into food coma.1
Works Cited
Hass avocado composition and potential health effects. Dreher ML, Davenport AJ. Critical reviews in food science and nutrition, 2013, Dec.;53(7):1549-7852.
Photo: Clean Eating Veggie Girl2. Ground Turkey Plantain Nachos
The starchier cousin of bananas, plantains are available at most grocery stores, but if you cant find them, sweet potatoes work just as well here. They take the place of tortilla chips, but topped with a generous mound of spiced lean turkey, they still pack all the flavors of traditional nachos.Photo: Bowl of Delicious3. Fiesta Chicken Salad
While many Whole30 chicken salads rely on a homemade mayonnaise, not all of us have the time, patience, or means to whisk up raw eggs with an immersion blender. Instead, try this mayo-free rendition, which gets its creamy texture from avocado and some Mexican flair from a few simple spices.Photo: The Organic Kitchen4. Jalapeo Turkey Burgers
Sometimes you just need a good burger for lunch. And while there are plenty of healthy recipes out there, many use condiments that arent Whole30 friendly. Satisfy that craving the clean-eating way with this version.Photo: PaleoLeap5. Turkey, Kale, and Cauliflower Soup
With all the ground turkey and veggies going on, this is more like a chunky stew than a soup. It may be a bit more chopping and simmering than what youre used to in the middle of the day, but thats exactly why this is such a perfect recipe to make on a weekend and have on hand for a no-brainer lunch all week.
SeafoodPhoto: Living Well Kitchen6. Salmon Asparagus Bundles
Were used to seeing asparagus bundled in bacon, but these roll-ups go for a lower-cholesterol protein, using salmon to wrap around the green spears and crisp bell pepper slices. Slightly broiled, these dainty little parcels can liven up your lunch break.Photo: Little Broken7. Healthy Avocado Tuna Salad
Proving again that you dont need mayo to make deli salads delicious, this recipe subs in mashed avocado to get the same creamy feel but with many more healthy fats and fiber. Scooped into romaine leaves, this salad is better than the original in taste, nutrition, and presentation too!Photo: Laughing Spatula8. Cold Poached Salmon
Poached salmon may sound bland at first glance, but this recipe is anything but. Simmered with chopped herbs, lemon, and garlic, the filet literally soaks up their fragrances and flavors. Its one of the easiest ways to make the tastiest fish dish.Photo: The Hedge Combers9. Crab Salad With a Fresh Coriander Dressing
Struggling with adding taste to dishes without dairy or sugar? Let Asian flavors come to the rescue. This recipe shows you how, using herbs like lemongrass and coriander for a fresh, clean dressing. It may become your new go-to long after youre done with the Whole30.Photo: Mom Endeavors10. Shrimp Avocado Salad
If youre using preboiled shrimp, this no-cooking-required salad comes together in just a few minutes. With sharp red onion and cool avocado chunks accompanying the shellfish, the ingredients here make for a light but nutrient-dense meal.
Other MeatsPhoto: Rainbow Delicious11. Taco Salad
A colorful way to break up your workday, this taco salad puts just as much emphasis on including a variety of produce as it does on the meat. The best part? Theres so much to enjoy here that you dont even a need to whisk up a dressing. Just a drizzle of olive oil and a squeeze of lemon will do the trick.Photo: Paleo Spirit12. Sausage and Kale Saut
If youre short on time but want a hot meal, this quick, four-ingredient recipe should be right up your alley. A fast 5 to 10 minute saute lets the kale and bell peppers retain their crispiness (plus many of their antioxidants) while making sure the meat is browned to perfection.Photo: The Pike Place Kitchen13. Garlic Bacon Avocado Burgers
It only takes five ingredients to make seven juicy beef burgers for each day of the weekjust check your bacon's label to make sure its Whole30 approved. Quick to put together, cost-efficient, and freezable, these patties will make your life easierand lunchtime yummier.Photo: The Freckled Foodie14. Tomato, Bacon and Arugula Quiche With Sweet Potato Crust
When you want a satisfying, healthy, and easy-to-make option for a quick lunch thatll last a few days, quiche never disappoints. This one goes above and beyond in nutrition and taste, packing in plenty of produce alongside the meat, and including a simple sweet potato base for that crust-like crunch.Photo: The Paleo Running Momma15. Sausage Pizza Egg Muffins
No need to fight off those relentless pizza cravings while on the Whole30make these muffins instead! Brimming with sausage (check that theres no added sugar), sundried tomatoes, and roasted garlic, a couple of these portable bites will totally hit the spot.
MeatlessPhoto: Food Faith Fitness16. Sweet Potato Noodles and Apple Spinach Salad With Almond Dijon Vinaigrette
Use the Whole30 experience to experiment with unique salad combinations like this one. Packed with sliced almonds, a whole sweet potato, apples, and an almond-butter dressing, its not only creative, but also packed with ingredients to keep you happily full for hours.Photo: The Whole Smiths17. Cauliflower Rice Tabouleh
While pulsed cauliflower is usually used as a replacement for rice, here it takes the place of cracked wheat to recreate a traditional Lebanese dish the Whole30 way. Make it a night in advance to let the olive oil and herbs soak into the veggies, and youve got a flavorful lunch ready to pack the next day.Photo: Tastes Lovely18. Orange Almond Salad With Avocado
Its hard not to look at the bright, happy colors in this sunny salad and not want to make it! Healthy fats dominate here, with almonds and avocado making for a creamy and crunchy contrast, while orange segments lift up the heavier ingredients with sweet, citrus juiciness.Photo: Wife Mama Foodie19. Avocado Egg Salad
Since dairy, beans, and soy arent permitted on the strict Whole30, herbivores can find getting enough protein to be a real challenge. If you're one of them, try this egg salad paired with a mashed avocado "dressing." Its a step up in flavor and nutrition from plain old hardboiled eggs and doesnt require homemade mayo.Photo: I Breathe I'm Hungry20. Zucchini and Sweet Potato Latkes
There are zucchini fritters and sweet potato pancakes. And then there are these latkes, which are somewhere in between. Using equal amounts of both green and orange veggies, they give you the best of both worlds.
This article was written by Anisha Jhaveri from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Guy Will Change How You Think About Ballet Dancers
description: If someone asked you to picture a ballet dancer, chances are you'd think of a little girl in a pink tutu (or resident badass Misty Copeland), but 23-year-old Erik Cavanaugh is out to change that.
The dancer and choreographer posts stunning Instagram videos that prove dance is for everybody (and every body type). Cavanaugh's message is encouraging whether you're a dancer yourself or just an uncoordinated superfan of So You Think You Can Dance. We also love that one of his life goals is to bust a move with Ellen (hi, us too!). Check out some of his videos below.
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: These T-Shirts Make It Easier to Talk About Mental Illness
description: We're big supporters of the recent conversations challenging the stigma around mental illness. So naturally we're fans of these t-shirts from Canadian company Wear Your Label. The tees say things such as "Rad but sad" and "It's OK not to be OK," making it easier to express how you feel, send an encouraging message to others, or simply create more awareness around mental health. Check out a few of our favorites below.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Ford Will Soon Be Making Car Parts Out Of CO2 Pollution
description: Maybe it's fitting that one of the first companies to start making products out of carbon pollution is an automaker. For the last four years, Ford has been working with a manufacturer to develop a CO2-based foam, and soon a plastic, that can eventually replace parts made from petroleum.
The shift could reduce petroleum by more than 600 million pounds a year. "There's 30 pounds of foam in a typical vehicle, and 300 pounds of plastic," says Debbie Mielewski, Ford's senior technical leader of sustainability. "So 10% of the vehicle is plastic currently, and that number grows every year as we try to use plastic to replace metal for light-weighting, fuel economy purposes."
The new foam could be used in headrests, armrests, in door panels, and under carpeting. CO2-based polymers will also be used to make hard plastics for most of the rest of a car.
Ford has been developing alternative materials for the last 15 years; every North American car or truck already uses some soy foam. There's also coconut fiber used in trunk liners, and recycled clothing and plastic bottles go into carpeting and some fabric.
Ford
Each new material faces some initial skepticism. "I think this is about the fourth time that our group has been told there's no way that this is going to work," says Mielewski. When the company first started sampling the material, which is made from 50% captured CO2, they couldn't mix it into a formulation. Now, after years of work with university partners and the manufacturer, they look like ordinary foams, and have passed the company's screening tests so far.
Though some CO2-based products may eventually come from pollution captured from the air, the current source is power plants. "Right now it's the smartest thing to take it from a concentrated stream that would otherwise end up being discharged into the environment," she says. "In order to capture it from the atmosphere would take a lot more energy."
It will likely take five more years of testing, and scaling up both with suppliers and the polymer manufacturer, Novomer. But in the long term, the company may completely replace petroleum parts in cars. "We have made so much progress in the short period of time we've worked in this area, we feel that every single plastic material on a car could be made better for the environment, greener, and have a specific source that is determined to be the best for that product," she says.
The company is also starting to slowly move away from petroleum as a fuel source: Though Ford only has one electric car now, it plans to add another more by 2020. [Correction: This sentence previous said Ford would be adding 13 electric cars by 2020. It plans to add 13 electric cars, hybrids, and plug-in hybrids, but not all will be fully electric.]
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Amy Schumer and Lena Dunham Call Out Body Shamers in This Hilarious Sketch
description: When it comes to calling out ridiculous body shaming, Amy Schumer's critiques (and humor) are top notch. This hilarious new sketch from her show is no different. In it, Schumer goes shopping but can only find smalland doll-sizeversions of the shirt she wants.
We weren't sure whether to laugh or cry when the salesperson brings her to the section where they house size 12s: an open field (a not-so-subtle reference to being put out to pasture). As Schumer walks out of the store with her "dress" and pretzel in hand, she says what we're all thinking: Just for the future, know that that is really offensive.
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The Right Way to Make Ice (Yep, There Is One)
description: Ever feel like the only times you need ice, the tray is always completely empty? You can either fill up a new tray and wait a few hours, or down some lukewarm liquid (delish!).
Next time start with warm waterit actually freezes faster than cold. This counterintuitive hack works because of the Mpemba effect, which makes sense only if you remember an alarming amount of high school chemistry. The Mpemba effect was first discovered by ice cream makers, who realized milk froze faster when it was warm.
(h/t Mic)
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Can You Really Build "Long, Lean" Muscles?
description: You hear it from fitness instructors. You read it in ads for yoga, Pilates, or barre studios. You see it in #fitstagrams, magazines, and your newsfeed. I just got an email today about a new workout that promises that "long, lean body that everyone wants.
Sure, not everyone actually wants that lithe look. But for those who do, promises of longer, leaner muscles can be just the motivation you need, especially when you hear it from trainers and professionals you trust. But is it realisticor even honest?
Muscles 101Muscles contract and stretch to move bones, kind of like stretchy rubber bands, but they technically have fixed lengths. "You can't change where muscles begin and end; it's your anatomical predisposition," says Michael George, a certified functional fitness trainer and Ph.D. candidate.
Which is to say: Baby, you were born this way. If you happen to have a short calf muscle (compared to other people), you could spend all day downward-dogging, but that wont magically transform the length of your legs. Similarly, all the barre in the world won't make you taller, but it will improve your posture, strength, and flexibility. It doesn't mean it's not worth doing; it just means it won't perform a miracle.
So what's the difference between a ballerina and a power lifter? The answer is a combination of two things: how they train and what they eat.
Get Strong, Not Long
While you cant control the actual length of muscles, you can control the way you develop muscles.
Isometric contractions (think: tensing a muscle but not actually moving, like holding a plank) utilized in workouts such as barre or yoga develop muscles differently than dynamic or isotonic movements, where the muscle stretches and contracts through a range of motion, like push-ups. Plus, perfoming a high number of reps of tiny, controlled movements engages and strengthens a different set of muscle fibers (slow-twitch) than big, explosive movements, which work fast-twitch fibers.
There are pros and cons to each method, but on a structural level, both isometric and dynamic exercises lead to greater strength, firmness, and tone in the muscle, says Tanya Becker, certified trainer and co-founder of Physique 57. In fact, doing a combo of both is ideal for getting quick results.
It's also possible to train muscles at different lengths by performing exercises that first stretch the muscle and then engage it, says Bret Contreras, a certified strength and conditioning specialist. For example, a sprinter might train their hamstrings to be stronger when stretched by doing Romanian deadlifts. But this doesnt mean youll actually see a big difference, Contreras says.
We know this probably isn't what you want to hear, but if you really want to appear "longer and leaner," its going to happen in the kitchen, not in the gym.
The Skinny on Body FatTo really see the changes from all your hard work, you need a reduction of body fat, George says. Its 80 percent diet and 20 percent cardio and strength work.
And yes, women can and should strength train without worrying that they will turn into The Incredible Hulk. Its a common misconception that if women use heavy weights, theyre going to get big and bulky, George says. Thats not going to happen, because women have less muscle tissue and less testosterone than men, he adds.1
The false promise here is merely a matter of semantics. Saying you can build long, lean muscles is a flawed generalization that capitalizes on the fear of getting "big." We need to get more specific about what we want. What most people are looking for is not length, its definition and reduced body fat.
The Bottom Line
To answer the question: No, you can't alter the actual length of muscles, but you can train andmore importantlyeat in a way that results in having leaner, more defined muscle tissue on your body.
Saying you can build "long and lean muscles" to market a workout or a method of training is just thatmarketing. Find what works for you, fuel your body properly, and it won't matter how you label your musclesyou'll feel like an all-around badass from the inside out.
Works Cited
Resistance exercise increases leg muscle protein synthesis and mTOR signalling independent of sex. Dreyer HC, Fujita S, Glynn EL. Acta physiologica (Oxford, England), 2010, Jan.;199(1):1748-1716.
This article was written by molly ritterbeck from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Sea Level Rise Could Help Marshes Ease Flooding
description: Along the mid-Atlantic coast, where waters are rising quickly, marshes are on the march, consuming forestland, farms and yards. Habitats are changing fast here, said Matt Whitbeck, a biologist at the Blackwater National Wildlife Refuge in Maryland, where dead trees still jut from young marshes.
Newly published modeling shows that a looming acceleration in sea level rise could further accelerate the spread of marshes worldwide.A ghost forest in Bass River,N.J., where marshland is replacing forestland.
Credit: Ken Able/Rutgers University
Coastal planners value marshes for their ability to hold back floods. When conditions are right, they cling to shifting coastlines like protective scabs, growing taller as tides get higher, slowing waves, erosion and floods.
For a moderate acceleration in sea-level rise, the marshes could actually get bigger, because theyre going to migrate into uplands at a faster rate, said Matt Kirwan, a Virginia Institute of Marine Science researcher who led the study, published in Geophysical Research Letters.
Thats completely different than how we normally think of sea-level rise, Kirwan said. We normally think of sea level rise as a threat to marshes.
{related}
Ghost forests of dead trees are already prominent at East Coast sites like Blackwater, which is home to bald eagles and wetland species, and where several thousand acres of forest has died since the 1930s and given way to marshland. The eerie ecosystems are particularly common in New Jersey.
Following a half foot rise last century, heat-trapping pollution is now causing seas to rise more than an inch per decade. That rate is poised to continue increasing. Anywhere between two and six feet of sea level rise is possible this century. The severity of future flooding will depend partly on whether a new United Nations climate treaty succeeds in abruptly slowing warming from fuel burning, deforestation and meat production.
Kirwan studies marshes and he wanted to know more about how the acceleration of sea level rise would affect them. He worked with colleagues to develop models that investigated how marsh erosion, soil accumulation and upland marsh expansion are affected by sea level rise and local topography.
The findings added to evidence that marshes can offer economical solutions to flooding in the backcountry as sea levels change
and that those solutions become expensive near cities.
The researchers reported in their paper that marsh loss is nearly inevitable where human structures or steep hills block the upland migration of the marsh ecosystem. But where there are no such barriers, increases in marsh expansion upland are much more sensitive to a quickening of sea level rise than rates of marsh loss at the waters edge.
The modeling showed that marshes can drown once sea level rise reaches rapid rates
rates that are unlikely to be experienced in the near future. Their expansion also depends on sufficient mud swirling in the water, which helps them accumulate soil needed to grow vertically as seas rise.
Sea-level rise has been particularly rapid in the mid-Atlantic, where Kirwan is based, with human and natural forces combining to raise high tide marks at least half a foot from 2002 to 2014. High tide flooding is becoming routine in Annapolis and in other cities along the Eastern seaboard, heralding a looming global crisis.
What drove our research were all these observations of dead trees along the edges of marshes up and down the Atlantic coast, Kirwan said. As salty waters rise, shoreline trees die and marsh plants colonize soggy land between the trunks. Mud, branches and muck combine into rich wetland soil, fostering plants and wildlife. Its clear that the marsh is migrating upslope.
Wetland restoration projects are starting to become popular around the world. San Francisco Bay Area voters are considering introducing a parcel tax to help fund marsh restorations. A recent worldwide study showed its two to five times cheaper to grow a marsh to shield against the eroding power of waves than to build a barrier from rocks or concrete. Marshes also support fisheries.
EPA surveys have shown just half of Americas remaining wetlands are in good condition. Kirwans modeling suggests that providing ample space near a tattered marsh may be the best way to breathe back life into it.Trees die and marshes flourish near shifting shorelines atBlackwater National Wildlife Refuge.
Credit: U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service/Flickr
Our models indicate that management efforts dont have to focus on preserving the marsh thats already there, Kirwan said. Instead, they should consider where the marshes are going to be in the future.
In areas where land is expensive, already built over or protected by seawalls, that could be prohibitively expensive, causing city marshes to drown as seas rise.
An important precondition is that there is a gently sloping transition to natural uplands
and no man-made barriers, Stijn Temmerman, a University Antwerp professor who studies ecosystem management.
When seawalls, houses and roads stand in the way of marshes natural inland migrations, the marshes can disappear. Temmerman says thats a major threat in Europe, where theres a long tradition of building sea walls behind marshes.
Some American coastal neighborhoods could adapt to regular flooding, such as with elevated buildings or floodable ground floors. But many view the ongoing abandonment of targeted waterfront neighborhoods as inevitable. The new findings show successful coastal retreat may also require abandoning land thats set back from a waterfront, allowing marshes to migrate into it.
High costs of land, however, mean its very unlikely that land will be made available for wetland migration along populous stretches of coastline, according to Kristina Hill, an urban ecology and design researcher at the University of California, Berkeley.
I think wetland migration by natural processes will certainly occur, but mostly in rural or abandoned suburban areas, Hill said. The trick will be removing underground and surface systems that will interfere with wetland migration, like underground pipes, contaminated soils, basement foundations and roadways.
Even in lightly populated areas, American coastlines tend to run parallel with train tracks and highways. They can block the migration of a marsh, and, politically, they can be almost impossible to relocate, Hill said. Theyll form hard edges for wetland migration unless theyre elevated on causeways.
Despite the prominence of ghost forests on the East Coast, marsh migration is a global phenomenon. Richard Stumpf, a NOAA scientist, documented a spectacular marsh migration nearly 1,000 miles from Blackwater. He worked with the U.S. Geological Survey to analyze landscape changes in the little-populated areas of the eastern Gulf of Mexico.
About 10,000 acres of marshes eroded away or drowned along a section of Florida coastline during 120 years, the scientists reported earlier this year in the journal Estuaries and Coasts. Meanwhile, twice that acreage of forest died and turned into marshland, with further conversions underway.
We have an understanding that marsh migration can be as important as marsh erosion, Stumpf said. This paper is a good example of developing a model to test our understanding.
Back at Blackwater, Whitbeck and his colleagues have been trying to protect new marshlands from invasive grasses and from marsh-destroying invasive rodents called nutria. Even as they do that, theyre trying to clear a path for future marsh expansion as seas continue to rise
something thats easier to do in a wildlife refuge than in an urban setting.
Were protecting lands within these marsh migration corridors so we can have places for the marshes to migrate into the future, Whitbeck said. Its a very proactive approach.
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Equity Crowdfunding Is Here: Now You Can Own A Share In A Startup's Success (Or Failure)
description: Nick Tommarello has been waiting four years for this: The day when everyday people can start investing directly in companies over the internet. Today Title III of the JOBS Act, signed into law by President Obama in 2012, goes into force, enabling anyonenot just "accredited investors," who have at least $100,000 in assetsto invest in startups, small businesses, and other private firms.
And that means Tommarello's Wefunder platform can move into the next stage. So far he's worked only we accredited investors but now anyone can put money into the companies raising funds.
"When we first started we had to have Congress pass a law, and then we had to wait four years for the SEC to write the rules for the law," he says. "We founded this company for this moment, so we're pretty excited."
Wefunder has 20 companies lined up for today's launch. They include a donut shop, a pharmaceutical firm, and a whiskey maker. Another company is run by Bernard Loyd, an entrepreneur who wants to develop an African American cuisine quarter on Chicago's South Side. They have a range of valuations up to $5 million, and a mix of equity and debt offerings.
Tommarello sees several types of companies drawn to equity crowdfunding: Silicon Valley-style tech firms that want to expand investor circles; social impact startups that want a more direct, cooperative relationship with investors; and "forgotten middle"-type firms.
"There are plenty of profitable businesses out there that really can't get the funding they need to grow," he says of the last group. "The banks don't take any risks and the venture capitalists just invest in a narrow sliver of the economy."
The intriguing question is whether direct crowdfunding offers more than just a way to generate more dollars-whether it also changes the relationship between investor and business. Will investors, for instance, be prepared to accept lower returns than they might through their Fidelity 401K?
Tommarello says the motivation of most investors isn't to make a bumper return, but rather to put money into something they believe in: "It's to support things they care about and be part of the story. We're really hybrid between equity and perks. Say you invest $500 dollars in a restaurant. You may only get 2% interest, but you also get $500 of free food whenever you want!"
The JOBS Act (Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act) relaxed restrictions on small businesses to raise money. Title III is the crowdfunding part. Potentially, it represents an historic broadening access to direct shareholding. But some have questioned how far-reaching the new rules will be. The SEC has effectively capped the number of investors in any company at 500.
Tommarello says the SEC had a tough job juggling investor protections and opening things up for small firms. But he thinks they could have been more generous on the investor caps. Now firms will be limited somewhat. Investors with assets under $100,000which is who Jobs III is aimed atwill be able to invest between $2,000 and $4,000 a year.
Another question is whether sites like Wefunder can also be better places to investwhether it can build collective wisdom. Tommarello is setting up investor clubs of people with specific expertise, in hopes they can effectively appraise and pre-judge companies before they come on the platform.
"We're trying to design a system where we combine the knowledge of experts with people who care about things. We are hoping this can make better decisions for society as a whole."
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Video Shows How Much An Airplane Journey Really Costs
description: Take a guess at how much of your plane ticket's price goes towards fuel. The answer is almost none. While an Airbus A320 has a fuel capacity of around 6,400 gallons of fuel, equivalent to about 376 fully tanked Toyota Camrys, its cost is spread between a whole lot of passengers. So even while the plane burns fuel at a rate of a 0.7 miles per gallon, the cost per person is still lowjust $2.50 per passenger on a fully occupied Airbus A320 flight from New York to Washington, D.C.
This is one of the calculations you will find in this video from Wendover Productions, which breaks down the costs of air travel in order to see where your ticket money goes.
It's tempting to compare this fuel consumption to that of cars and other gas-powered vehicles, and in fact you can, using this chart from the U.S. Department of Energy.
(Your browser doesn't support iframe)\But to do so would be to ignore factors like the low cost of fuel to airlines ($1.24 per gallon in February 2016, according to Wendover), the long distances traveled by planes, which results in huge amounts of burned fuel, and even the way pollution from a plane's engines is way worse for climate change than if the same fuel were burned on the ground.
(Your browser doesn't support iframe)\So where does the price of your ticket go? Wendover breaks them down for a two-hour flight on the Airbus A320 mentioned above, including $14 in maintenance fees, $15 in airline staffing costs, and an annoying $5.60 9/11 Security Fee to fund the TSA. What remains after all these and many other costs are taken out is the airline's gross profit, which comes out to just $10 per passenger. (The real profit may be lower, especially if the flight isn't full.)
But even with all these added costs, flying is still almost absurdly cheap. It's almost always cheaper than taking the train, even though the train may be quicker on short journeys because you cut out travel time to and from the airport, plus all the "security" shenanigans while you're there. One thing that air travel most certainly isn't is green: while it remains the cheapest way to travel long and medium distances, it will also continue be one of the worst.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: In Greece, Designers Use Discarded Refugee Life Jackets To Make Mattresses
description: What do you do with the hundreds of thousands of life jackets discarded by refugees that landed up on your shores? Earlier this year in Greece, volunteers on the island of Lesbos pondered the same problem and came up with an amazing idea: repurposing the jackets to make mattresses for the same refugees who brought them.
Danish volunteers Mads Damgaard Peterson and Anezka Sokol came up with concept when they realized that the discarded vests, which they were using to sit on because the ground was cold, could also be used to help the refugees who were sleeping directly on the hard ground.
"We were seeing this enormous problem on the island with all the mess, at the same time as seeing all the refugees sleeping on the ground," Damgaard Peterson told the UN Refugee Agency, UNHCR. The jackets are made from closed-cell foam, which means that they're packed with tiny air bubbles, and therefore they make great insulators, as well as being padded.
The pair took cable-ties and lashed together prototypes, a simple mattress made by tying three jackets together. They made 20 and gave them to refugees waiting at the Moria refugee registration center just after the New Year, when outside temperatures had dropped to 21F.
Some refugees didn't like the idea at first. After all, most of the discarded jackets had been heaped onto the municipal dump. They also brought back bad memories of the refugees' dangerous flight from home. So a second iteration of the design used the groundsheet of a tent to hide the jackets and overcome hygiene concerns.
According to UNHCR, over 1 million migrants and refugees came to Europe by sea in 2015 and half of them landed at Lesbos. This means that there is no shortage of raw materials for the mattresses, with hundreds of thousands of jackets that would otherwise go to waste.
There are many projects to help refugees, but one of the most important criteria is that you need to help a lot of people in a short time. This has led to simple designs like this jacket that turns into a tent, or the NoBorders backpack, fashioned from discarded rubber dinghies. And nothing's faster than zip-tying a bunch of discarded jackets together to make beds. It's the kind of smart, on-the-ground thinking that can really help people who need it.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Hilarious Ad Captures Your Morning Routine Perfectly
description: Even when we pack our bag the night before or set our alarm earlier, we never have enough time in the morning.
That's why this hilarious ad from Organic Valley hits home. They know we don't want to follow the morning routines of health gurusain't nobody got time for journaling or brewing homemade kombucha before heading out the door.
And they've got the numbers to back it up in their Real Morning Report (spoiler: one in three people never make their bed, like ever.) So take heartyou're not alone if this reminds you of your own crazy-hectic mornings.
This article was written by AMY EISINGER from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Chilling Video Shows the Side of Relationship Abuse We Don't Talk About
description: Relationship abuse isn't always physical. This video from the One Love Foundation gives us a harrowing look into emotional abuse. It's often more subtlein this case, a boyfriend lashes out every time his girlfriend doesn't answer his texts or calls.
This topic has been on our minds a lot this week: Just a few days ago the hashtag #MaybeHeDoesntHitYou trended on Twitter. Both campaigns seek to reveal how common relationship abuse is (one in four women is abused by a partner at some point in her life) and end the stigma surrounding domestic violence.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: CO2 Nears Peak: Are We Permanently Above 400 PPM?
description: Just three years ago this month, the carbon dioxide monitoring station atop Hawaiis Mauna Loa reached a significant milestone: the first measurement of CO2 concentrations that exceeded the benchmark of 400 parts per million (ppm). Now, they may never again dip below it.
As CO2 levels once again approach their annual apex, they have reached astonishing heights. Concentrations in recent weeks have edged close to 410 ppm, thanks in part to a push from an exceptionally strong El Nio.
Click image to enlarge.
But it is the emissions from human activities that are by far the main driver of the inexorable climb of CO2 concentrations in the atmosphere. That trend, in turn, is driving the steady rise of global temperatures, which have set record after record in recent months.
Those CO2 levels will soon begin to drop toward their annual minimum as spring triggers the collective inhale of trees and other plant life. But because of the remarkable heights reached this year, the fall minimum, unlike recent years, may not dip below the 400-ppm mark at Mauna Loa.
I think were essentially over for good, Ralph Keeling, the director of the Mauna Loa CO2 program at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, said.
And before too long, that will be the case the world over.
Steady Rise
Atmospheric carbon dioxide levels are monitored at stations around the world, providing records of the mark humans are leaving on the planet. Keelings father, Charles Keeling, began the recordings at Mauna Loa in 1958, revealing not only the annual wiggles created by the seasonal growth and death of vegetation, but the steady rise in CO2 from year to year.
The resulting graph, dubbed the Keeling Curve in his honor, became an icon of climate science.
Click image to enlarge.
Back then, CO2 levels were around 315 ppm (already an increase from preindustrial levels of about 280 ppm), but they have grown steadily, first crossing the 400 ppm threshold in May 2013. The following year saw the first month with an average over that level. Last year, it was three months.
But in each of those years, concentrations dipped back below that level in the fall, but for a shorter and shorter length of time.
While the worlds plants need CO2 to function, they can only soak up so much, leaving behind an excess every year
an excess that slowly lifts both the annual maximum and minimum, just as a rising tide lifts all ships.
That yearly excess (recently about 2 ppm) traps ever more heat in the Earths atmosphere, which has raised global temperatures by 1.6F (0.9C) since the beginning of the 20th century. In recent months, those temperatures have neared 1.5C (2.7F) above those of the late 19th century
a milestone international negotiators are working to potentially avoid. Depending on how much emissions are reduced in the coming decades, the Earth could see another 3F to 9F (1.7C to 5C) of warming by the end of the century.
El Nios Boost
Last year, CO2 hit a weekly peak of about 404 ppm. If the trend had continued as normal, it likely would have been another couple years before year-round levels at Mauna Loa permanently rose above 400 ppm. But then came one of the strongest El Nios on record.
El Nio tends to lead to drought in the tropical regions of the planet, which can mean more wildfires and higher CO2 emissions. This El Nio helped cause a huge leap in CO2 levels compared to last year; over 2015, CO2 concentrations grew by 3.05 ppm, the largest jump on record.
It also marked the fourth consecutive year with a growth rate higher than 2 ppm
another hallmark of global warming is that the annual growth rate of CO2 is accelerating. At the beginning of the Keeling Curve record, the growth rate was only about 0.75 ppm.
{related}
Currently, CO2 levels are about 4 ppm higher than this point last year, thanks in part to a particularly big jump in April. Keeling isnt sure what the exact cause of that jump was, but said it was likely a high-CO2 air mass moving in from Southeast Asia.
Because of that jump, the highest weekly value recorded this year has been 408.6, in mid-April. Daily values reached even higher, closing in on 410 ppm.
Such April jumps are fairly typical, Keeling said, though May generally has a higher monthly average than April because it is more consistently high. (The peak in CO2 levels is also shifting earlier in May because of the longer growing season ushered in by higher global temperatures.)
Permanently Over 400 ppm?
As May turns to June, CO2 levels will come down from their fever pitch, and the question is: How low will they go? Will they dip below 400 ppm one more time, or are we now in an over-400 ppm world.
For his part, Keeling thinks the latter situation is the more likely.
I think its pretty unlikely that Mauna Loa will dip below 400 ppm in the monthly or weekly averages, he said. That is a sentiment he first expressed in a blog post back in October, when it was becoming clear how strong El Nio would be.
Pieter Tans, lead scientist of NOAAs Global Greenhouse Gas Reference Network, was more circumspect, saying it depends on how long the current 4-ppm rise from last year lasts into the summer.
Mauna Loa isnt the only spot poised to move permanently above 400 ppm, though. The Cape Grim station in remote northwestern Tasmania saw its first measurements above 400 ppm on May 10. Now that it has reached that level, it will not dip below again, the scientists who maintain the site told the Sydney Morning Herald.
This is particularly significant because Cape Grim had yet to reach that mark, in part because the Southern Hemisphere has a less pronounced seasonal cycle than the Northern Hemisphere because the Northern Hemisphere has more landmass and plant life. The majority of carbon dioxide emissions also come from the Northern Hemisphere and take about a year to spread across the equator.
This illustration shows the levels of carbon dioxide through a swath of the atmosphere over the Southern Hemisphere.
Click image to enlarge.Credit:Eric Morgan, Scripps Institution of Oceanography
Keeling saw this process in action during an airborne mission run by the National Center for Atmospheric Research that measured CO2 levels throughout the depth of the Southern Hemisphere atmosphere in February. The measurements taken during that mission showed that even in some of the remotest reaches of the planet, near Antarctica, air masses had CO2 concentrations over 400 ppm. And those that didnt were just barely under.
What this means is that this is the last we'll see of sub-400 ppm CO2 in the Southern Hemisphere, unless were able to someday achieve negative emissions, NCAR scientist Britton Stephens, co-lead principal investigator for the mission, said in a statement.
Keeling suspects that the only places on the globe that may see levels dip below 400 ppm this summer will be at the highest latitudes (which have higher seasonal swings). They could perhaps do so again next summer, but then the planet as a whole will be above 400 ppm for the foreseeable future.
And while that benchmark is somewhat symbolic
the excess heat trapped by 400 ppm versus 399 is small
it serves as an important psychological milestone, Keeling said, a way to mark just how much humans have emitted into the atmosphere.
And with levels this year already nearing 410 ppm, you realize how fast this is all going, he said.
Keeling is hopeful, though, that with the signing of the Paris agreement and signs of action to limit emissions by various national governments, the iconic rise of the Keeling Curve will start to plateau.
If Paris is successful, this curve will look very different in a matter of five or 10 years because it will start to change, he said And I hope we see that.
Editor's note: This story was updated to reflect the confirmation that the Cape Grim CO2 station had made its first measurement over 400 ppm.
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 31 Alternative Noodle Recipes That Pasta Fanatics Will Love
description: Noodles make whipping up a quick meal easy and tastythey require virtually no Iron Chef America skills since its just boil water, cook pasta, drain, and add sauce. And they can adapt to any cuisine by simply changing the toppings. But sometimes you want to give your body a break from all of that wheat or youre looking for a lower-carb optionor simply a new option.
Of course there are zoodles, those fantastic zucchini noodles. But the summer squash isnt the only produce you should put through a spiralizer. We found 31 recipes using all kinds of vegetables, beans, and even fruit that are made into spaghetti, fettucine, ravioli, and more. Then they're topped (or stuffed) with delicious sauces and extras. Whether hot, cold, crunchy, or creamy, youll never think of pasta the same way again.
CucumbersPhoto: This Gal Cooks1. Cucumber Noodles and Spicy Sesame Soy Dressing
Sesame noodles are a takeout favorite, but theyre usually loaded with oil and preservatives. Why not whip up a version thats both healthier and easier? Crisp cucumber noodles create a perfect bed for a drizzle of spicy sesame soy dressing thats as beautiful as it is delicious.Photo: Peas and Crayons2. Sweet and Sour Thai Cucumber and Carrot Noodles
Raw cucumbers are great for snacking, but theyre downright amazing when garnished with a sweet and sour dressing. With just six ingredients and a recipe thats as simple as cutting the cucumber and adding the rest of the ingredients, the only hard things is finding the patience to let it marinate for two hours so the flavors really set in. (Did someone say Netflix time?)Photo: Rawmazing3. Cucumber Noodles With Coconut Lime Cumin Dressing
Sometimes its nice to have a touch of decadence without going over the top, and this coconut dressing fits the bill perfectly. Spiked with ginger and cumin, its sure to wake up anyones taste buds and it only takes a few minutes. Slice up the cucumber, toss the dressing ingredients into the blender for a quick whirl, and then shower the whole thing with some black sesame seeds and scallions for a final flourish.Photo: Maple Spice4. Cucumber Noodle Salad With Avocado and a Spicy Cashew Butter Dressing
Why do peanuts get all the attention? Cashews are just as delicious and packed with healthy fats that boost levels of good cholesterol. Here they shine in a spicy dressing that wakes up a salad of cucumber and avocado. Who knew salad could taste so indulgent?Photo: The Low Carb Diet5. Cucumber Pasta Salad
Pasta salad is a delicious potluck and picnic staple, but all that mayo tends to cover up the bright flavors. This recipe replaces the usual noodles with cucumber strands tossed in a zesty, homemade Italian vinaigrette. Its a crisp, flavorful way to really enjoy your veggies and get a taste of summer even in the cant-feel-your-nose cold of winter.
Sweet PotatoPhoto: Reclaiming Yesterday6. Beef Pho With Beech Mushrooms and Sweet Potato Noodles
A rich, savory broth is perfect for noodles because they soak up all of that good flavor, but traditional noodles dont bring much of their own taste to the party. Swapping in ribbons of sweet potato still offers a satisfying slurp but adds even more complex flavor that pairs wonderfully with the beef and mushrooms. Dont be turned off by all the spicesits worth it for authentic pho broth.Photo: Gourmande in the Kitchen7. Sweet Potato Noodles With Kale Pesto
Sometimes chefs stress the importance of presentation by saying we eat with our eyes first. Any culinary guru would be delighted by this gorgeous plate of orange and green. This recipe subs kale for basil in the pesto for a rich, woodsy puree thats so good, it doesnt even need cheese. But that doesnt mean you cant sprinkle some Parm on top of your dinner.Photo: The Lemon Bowl8. Tomato Sweet Potato Noodles With Chicken and Artichokes
With a hefty dose of fiber and vitamin A, sweet potatoes are a nutritional powerhouse. They play noodles in this dish that is mixed with an easy DIY sauce, roasted artichokes, and chicken. Think of it as your new go-to, orange-hued pasta with tomato sauce dinner.Photo: A House in the Hills9. Thai Green Curry and Sweet Potato Noodle Bowl
For a real punch of flavor, nothing beats a comforting curry. Packed full of chiles, Thai green curry powder may help ward off nasty colds. It also happens to be super tasty. A pop of sweet peas and crunch from cashews make this an entree youll make again and again.Photo: Pinch of Yum10. Creamy Spinach Sweet Potato Noodles With Cashew Sauce
Noodles in a cashew sauce may sound fancy, but all that you need for this yummy sauce is cashews, salt, garlic, and water. Just make sure you prep this recipe ahead of time, since the cashews need to soak for about two hours beforehand. A spiralizer is a great tool for making the noodles, but if you dont have one, slice the sweet potato into thin planks and then cut into strips.Photo: Tastefully Gluten Free11. Sweet Potato Mac and Cheese
There's no way we would make a roundup of noodle recipes and leave out mac and cheese! This simple gluten-free recipe only takes 20 minutes, so it's perfect for weeknight meals. The blogger already uses almond milk, so you only need to sub in vegan cheese to make it dairy-free.
Other Root VegetablesPhoto: Grok Grub12. Paleo "Pasta" Puttanesca
With almost twice as much fiber and almost three times as much vitamin C per gram as carrots, parsnips pack a nutritional punch. Turn them into spaghetti and top with this tangy, salty tomato sauce.Photo: Paleo in Comparison13. Hot Beet Noodle Salad
Nearly every restaurant has a salad with roasted beets, candied nuts, and either blue or goat cheese. Theyre delicious, but theyre also a little boring. This recipe takes beets to a whole new level with Brussels sprouts, mushrooms, balsamic vinegar, and a little bit of bacon. Its sweet, savory, completely differentand appropriate for Paleos. Omit the bacon for vegans.Photo: Julie's Jazz14. Spicy Peanut Carrot Noodles
Sweet carrot strands are the perfect canvas for tons of different toppings, but they pair particularly well with this gingery peanut sauce. The best part about this recipe? Its super easy to customize with whatever leftovers are sitting in the fridge. A little bit of chicken, shrimp, or tofu makes this a satisfying Asian meal.Photo: The Lean Green Bean15. Winter Caprese Beet Noodle Pasta
Sometimes the thought of bringing a huge pot of water to a boil for pasta is just too much. Why not throw some beet noodles in the oven for quick bake instead? The root vegetable contains anti-inflammatory betalainsthey give beets their ruby hue and may protect again cancer.1 Plus the naturally sweet flavor goes wonderfully with tomatoes, mozzarella, and parsley, in this Caprese-inspired dish.
Works Cited
Antioxidant activity and phenolic content of betalain extracts from intact plants and hairy root cultures of the red beetroot Beta vulgaris cv. Detroit dark red. Georgiev VG, Weber J, Kneschke EM. Plant foods for human nutrition (Dordrecht, Netherlands), 2010, Dec.;65(2):1573-9104. Cytotoxic effect of the red beetroot (Beta vulgaris L.) extract compared to doxorubicin (Adriamycin) in the human prostate (PC-3) and breast (MCF-7) cancer cell lines. Kapadia GJ, Azuine MA, Rao GS. Anti-cancer agents in medicinal chemistry, 2011, Jul.;11(3):1875-5992.
Photo: Inspiralized16. Parsnip Noodles With Leftover Ham and Butternut Squash Sage Sauce
This recipe is perfect for nights when you're looking to get rid of all your leftovers. The blogger uses leftover baked ham, but you can also use pancetta, bacon, or make your own vegetarian version. The parsnip noodles give this recipe a unique twist, and they only take five to seven minutes to cook!Photo: Passionately Raw17. Raw Rutabaga Noodles With Pumpkin Seed Pesto
Rutabaga might be a funny-sounding word, but this is one serious veggie that makes some tasty noodles. Its a cross between a cabbage and a turnip that does the body good with high levels of iron and potassium. And its subtle flavor goes great with the pumpkin seed pesto in this creative dish.
Premade Alternatives to Buy*Photo: Healthy Nibbles and Bits18. Vegetable Stir-Fry Mung Bean Noodles
This beauty of a dish is ready in 25 minutes, and its vegan and gluten-free. But how does it taste? With soy sauce, ginger, sesame oil, mung bean noodles (usually found with other Asian speciality goods), carrots, red pepper, onion, and Chinese broccoli, wed say quite delish!Photo: The Full Helping19. Smoky Southwestern Kelp Noodle Bowl With Black Beans and Corn
Yes, thats right: pasta made from seaweed (plus sodium alginatea saltand water). These strands are a bit crunchy and soak up just about any sauce. Get an entire primer on kelp noodles here, then try this easy-peasy recipe. The tangy, tahini-based dressing has a touch of smoked paprika, which adds to the Southwest flare of the noodles, broccoli, corn, and black beans.Photo: Merci Mama20. Sukiyaki Shirataki Noodles
Just because youre not having traditional noodles doesnt mean you cant have a great veggie stir-fry. This awesome dish calls for veggies like edamame, carrots, and zucchini, but feel free to add your own favorites (and some protein too!). The shirataki noodles here are made from a type of yam and offer up some fiber. Look for them near the tofu in your supermarket.Photo: Hatchery21. Korean Tofu Noodle Soup With Sesame Gochujang
This Korean dish looks just like an Instagram-worthy ramen bowl. You'll simmer onions, garlic, sesame gochujang (look for it in an Asian food market or sub in another sesame sauce), and broth, then add in some classic noodle soup toppings, such as bok choy and eggs.Photo: Divine Healthy Food22. Raw Kelp Noodles With Kale and Garlic Almond Miso
Low in calories, gluten-free, and appropriate for Paleos and vegans, kelp noodles are also a good source of calcium and high in iodine, an essential mineral that plays a role in thyroid function. Saute some with kale, nuts, and awesome homemade miso sauce for a dish you'll be bragging about for weeks. If you're in a pinch for time, you can also try this five-minute miso dressing recipe instead.Photo: Simply Gluten Free23. Gluten Free Black Bean Spaghetti With Roasted Butternut Squash
Butternut squash stars in this elegant pasta thats filled with protein to help fuel muscles and vitamin A to promote good eyesight. A trip to the oven lets the sugars in the squash caramelize before a final toss with black bean noodles, Parmesan, and walnuts. No walnuts? Save the seeds from the squash and roast them instead.Photo: Serious Eats24. Sichuan Shirataki Sesame Noodle Salad
When a craving for stir-fry hits, takeout becomes pretty appealing. The MSG and preservatives? Definitely less appealing. Fortunately, this cucumber, peanut, vegetable stir-fry salad couldnt be easier to make at home and it has tons of flavor. Using shirataki noodles instead of wheat-based ones ensures a gluten-free meal.
*If your store doesn't carry these noodles, you can buy them online.
Stuffed PastasPhoto: This Rawsome Vegan Life25. Raw Lasagna With Cashew Cheese and Broccoli Sun-Dried Tomato Pesto
Is this a lot of ingredients? Yes. Is a lot of work? No. Is it delicious? Isnt that obvious?! Both the cheese and pesto are made by simply blending the ingredients in a food processor or blender. With that done, all thats left is to layer everything into lasagna or roll them up. We recommend making more of the pestoits a rare and addictive flavor combo.Photo: Canelle et Vanille26. Raw Striped-Beet Ravioli With Herb and Goat Cheese Filling
Make this the next time you are having a guest over that you want to impress. Striped beets are sliced super-duper thin to make ravioli filled with a fresh and tangy herbed goat cheese. Its really not that hard to make, and any color beet will do. The striped just make it even more appealingPhoto: Delish Knowledge27. Vegetarian Lasagna Rolls
Not all veggie noodle lasagnas are raw. Here eggplant (a source of phenolic acidsnatural compounds that protect against oxidative stress and the resulting damage to cells) and zucchini are layered with an easy homemade tomato sauce (feel free to add lean ground beef or turkey) and a mix of three cheeseswhich means you get the traditional rich, gooey, stringy goodness you expect from the Italian favorite.Photo: Saffron Lane28. Raw Golden Beet Ravioli With English Pea Puree and Herb Oil
This 100-percent raw (read: dairy-free) recipe sounds and tastes like something youd see on a menu, but its not hard to make at home. Rather than using a nut cheese filling, this dish features a creamy green stuffing made from peas, avocado, and fresh herbs. Drizzled with flavored oil, its a healthy dinner that makes it seem like spring any time of year.Photo: Healthful Pursuit29. Paleo Lasagna With Dairy-Free Melty Cheese and Butternut Squash Noodles
Make this for your friend who doesn't think vegetable noodles can be meaty and filling. Butternut squash gets pancaked between a beef sauce and "cheese" made from ghee, almond milk, eggs, starch, and seasonings. We know: Really? That's cheese? But it tastes just like the real deal when it bakes up.
FruitPhoto: Food Faith Fitness30. Moroccan Style Paleo Pork Chops With Spiralized Apple Noodles
Fruit isn't just for breakfast or snack. This awesome Moroccan-style recipe uses apple noodles as the base a pork dinner recipe that's paired with a date and apricot chutney. It might look complicated, but the whole recipe (prep and cook time) only takes 25 minutes!Photo: Boulder Locavore31. Spiralized Apple-Pear Pomegranate Slaw With Honey Poppy Seed Dressing
Coleslaw doesn't always have to be made of veggies! This version of the summery staple uses spiralized apple and pear "noodles" as the base. The honey poppy seed dressing does a great job of complementing these fruits, but it's also an awesome addition to your favorite salads.
Originally published February 2015. Updated May 2016.
This article was written by Christine Skopec from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Big, Expensive Cities Are Forcing Low-Income Families And Millennials Away
description: With cities like Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York seeing yearly rent increases well above inflation, it's not easy for people on low or moderate incomes to keep up. These places, it seems, are increasingly for the affluent and well-heeled, not for ordinary folk.
Take a look at this analysis from the real estate data company Trulia. Using U.S. Census data from 2010 to 2014, it shows that people making $30,000 or less are leaving the most expensive cities in large numbers, while those on $150,000 or more are moving in.
Well, sort of. Actually, the analysis looks at what we would expect the "out-migration rate" to be for a particular group with the actual rate. So, for example, if 30% of a city's population speaks French, we would normally expect 30% of the people who move out in a year to be French-speaking.
For the 10 most expensive metrosChicago, Los Angeles, New York, Oakland, Orange County, San Francisco, San Jose, San Diego, Washington, D.C., and Silver Springpeople making $30,000 or less moved away at 51% above the expected rate on average. And in some places, it was higher than that. For the same income group, the rate was 92% in Oakland, 59% in San Francisco and a whopping 104% in Silver Spring, Maryland (a suburb of Washington, D.C.).
By contrast, in San Jose and Washington, D.C., people making more than $150,000 stayed put at about a 50% higher rate than you'd expect
The same analysis also shows higher than expected rates of moving away for millennials and certain types of workers, including those in the retail and agriculture sectors. "Those who earn very little income, those who work in unstable, less urban-based, and low-paying industries, and younger generation households that have not yet established a stable career have moved away from these pricey cities at much greater rates than the rest of the population," the report says.
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This California Salad Chain Is Bringing Its Cheap Local Food To New York City
description: On the patio of the Tender Greens restaurant on Sunset Boulevard in L.A., tall white towers sprout ingredients for the daily specialkale, chard, strawberries, and whatever else is in season. The restaurant, part of a chain throughout the state, is a typical example of fresh, local-obsessed California cuisine. Now the chain plans to expand to Manhattan, and up and down the East Coast.
Though New York City already has a slew of salad-focused, fast casual restaurantsSweetgreen, Chopt, Dig InnTender Greens is hoping to offer something slightly different.
First, each restaurant has a fine dining chef, giving it flexibility to change the menu every day based on supply, weather, and whim. The chain also thinks it can offer higher-quality ingredients than some competitors. "We built the brand around high-end products," says co-founder Erik Oberholtzer, sourced locally.
They probably won't, however, grow food on-site, as they have in California. "At $500 a square foot in Manhattan, you need every last inch of space," says Oberholtzer. "Secondly, the weather is challenging in New York. We're not going to necessarily have the patio real estate that we have here in California."
After a high-end, New York-based restaurant group, Union Square Hospitality Group, invested in the chain last year, Tender Greens started making plans to open in Manhattan, beginning next year. They plan on 10 to 12 locations in New York City, and to expand over the next few years from D.C. to Boston.
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This New Impact Investment Fund Is Designed To Help A Country Blighted By Poverty: America
description: When Jacqueline Novogratz founded Acumen Fund in 2001, philanthropy was still mostly about big, fusty foundations. Her nonprofit venture fund pioneered the idea of philanthropic business, tackling poverty through actual services and products. These days, "impact investing" is all the rage; 15 years ago, there was a line between doing good and making money.
"Most entrepreneurial efforts are focused on meeting market needs and the demands of an affluent group. We need to focus on the biggest problems we have."
Acumen (it's since streamlined and dropped the Fund bit) has invested $100 million in 100 enterprises from Pakistan to Nigeria. And now it's turning its attention to another country blighted by poverty: the United States. Acumen America looks to harness our famed entrepreneurialism, but to take on social problems, not just to make another app or labor-saving device.
"America's sense of entrepreneurship is as alive today as it's ever been," she says. "The issue is that most entrepreneurial efforts are focused on meeting market needs and the demands of an affluent group. We need to focus on the biggest problems we have, whether it's health care, the financial system, or intractable poverty."
Launching this month, the new fund is focused on three areas: financial inclusion, workforce development, and health. It's already made a couple of investments. One is Baltimore-based WorkAmerica, which works with community colleges to help students find trade jobs. The other is Healthify, which helps health providers refer low-income patients to social services.
Novogratz sees a big opportunity in promoting wellness as a way of reducing the cost of treating people when they get sick. Under Obamacare, insurers are now incentivized to keep patients out of hospitals as they get reimbursed annually per patient, not per health transaction.
"Up to 70 million people in this country are unbanked, and many of them have to pay rates in excess of 300% for payday lending. That's very similar to the rates our feudal farmers in Pakistan pay."
"We're seeing a new crop of entrepreneurs looking to build positive revenue models that reduce the cost to government and the insurance companies by essentially keeping people safer and healthier and out of the hospital," she says.
There's also an opportunity to cater to America's unbanked population and all the people who struggle to keep good credit scores. "Up to 70 million people in this country are unbanked, and many of them have to pay rates in excess of 300% for payday lending. That's very similar to the rates our feudal farmers in Pakistan pay," Novogratz says.
Startups like Cignifi and First Access have pioneered alternative credit scoring using mobile phone data. And Novogratz wants to see if the model can be reimported to the U.S., having seen success in East Africa and South Asia.
One of the biggest challenges of entering underserved markets is a lack of data to work with. By making philanthropic investments, Acumen hopes to generate market information that can be exploited by more conventional capital at a later stage. It recently conducted a "lean data sprint" in South Asia and Africa, where 23 of its companies gathered data via a simple cell phone survey. In time, Novogratz sees such impact data being incorporated alongside standard financial accounting. Measuring impact remains one of the biggest issues impact investing has to tackle.
By making philanthropic investments, Acumen hopes to generate market information that can be exploited by more conventional capital at a later stage.
Dozens of impact funds have emerged since 2001, including a number from major financial institutions. (Barclays is an anchor investor in Acumen America, along with the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and the Hitachi Foundation.) Some have criticized the shift to higher-yielding funds, saying there's a contradiction between naked profit-making and social good. But Novogratz says there's room for all kinds of players, and the impact industry will become both more segmented and defined over time.
Meanwhile, the line between making money and doing good will continue to blur, such that philanthropy and business will no longer be separate entities, but part of the same thing. "We're seeing a convergence of corporations integrating sustainability and nonprofits interacting with for-profits. Our lexicon has not yet caught up to the different models we need in our more global, networked economy," Novogratz says.
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Underwater Noise Is Killing Whales, But We Can Make The Oceans Quieter
description: One morning, on a beach in the Bahamas, whale researcher Ken Balcomb discovered a stranded whale. With the help of assistants, he tried to push it out into deeper water, but it came back to shore. Then the researchers discovered another whale down the shore, and another. That day, 17 beaked whalesa species that normally lives in very deep watershowed up on beaches around the Bahamas, and died.
A single massive container shipfour football fields longcan put 190 decibels of sound energy in the water, louder than the sound next to a speaker at a rock concert.
Balcomb wanted to find out why. When he sent specimens of the whales to a lab, scans showed evidence of hemorrhaging around the brain, and blood around the ears. The problem, he eventually learned, was extreme noisesonar tests from Navy warships had driven the whales to try to get out of the water.
The story of the mass beaching, one of many around the world, is part of a new documentary called Sonic Sea, which explains how human sound is transforming life in the oceans. Over the last half century, as cargo shipping and deep sea oil exploration has increased, background noise in the ocean has doubled roughly every decade.
A single massive container shipfour football fields longcan put 190 decibels of sound energy in the water, louder than the sound next to a speaker at a rock concert. At any given time, there are 60,000 commercial ships in the ocean. "The sound is completely inescapable," says Michael Jasny, director of the Marine Mammal Protection Project at the Natural Resources Defense Council, one of the producers of the documentary.
"The most important thing to understand in thinking about noise in the ocean is that the ocean is a world of sound," Jasny says. "Marine mammals, fish, and other marine species have evolved to depend on hearing as their primary sense. There's a good reason for thisa mature blue whale can scarcely see its own flukes [tail] in the water, and yet blue whales can communicate with one another across entire ocean basins."
"The sea is being industrialized, and that is having a sweeping impact on the acoustic world that whales and other marine life have to thrive in."
While light can't travel far through ocean water, sound can: In one experiment, researchers who made a sound in the Indian Ocean were able to detect it in both Washington State and in the Atlantic Ocean. In another study, researchers who were listening to whale sounds in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean couldn't hear the whales anymore when noise started from oil and gas drilling in West Africa.
"The sea is being industrialized, and that is having a sweeping impact on the acoustic world that whales and other marine life have to thrive in," Jasny says.
The constant wall of sound impacts how marine organisms search for food, communicate, navigate through the ocean, and almost every other aspect of life. Right whales, an endangered species living in the North Atlantic, can no longer hear each other as much as 80% of the time. It's a relatively recent change; since some whales can live 200 years, some of them grew up in a quiet ocean.
"The only good thing about ocean noise pollution is that noise disappears once you stop making it."
The good news: Better technology can dramatically reduce the noise. Oil and gas drillers, for example, usually use airguns with massive dynamite-like explosions to map the sea floor. But it's possible to use marine vibroseis, a technology that's thousands of times less invasive, instead. Some shipping companies are beginning to use technology for quieter ships. In Washington, ferries are now using quieter propellers (which, what do you know, also happen to be more efficient and save fuel). Ships can also reduce noise just by slowing down. Since it's typical to wait three days at a port after arrival, some experts argue that there's no reason to go faster.
"This is a problem that can be solved," Jasny says. "The only good thing about ocean noise pollution is that noise disappears once you stop making itit doesn't linger behind very long in the environment like other pervasive pollutants do."
In 2014, the International Maritime Organization adopted voluntary guidelines for quieter ships. "Now the trick is to get those guidelines implementedto get shipping lines and to get ports to take actions to reduce noise," he says.
Sonic Sea will premiere on the Discovery Channel on May 19.
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: What Are The Congresspeople Whose Districts Will Be Underwater Doing To Stop Climate Change?
description: Climate change was once an abstract global issue, easy for locally elected politicians to ignore or question. But scientific forecasts are far more specific today. It's not just the world or a country or a particular state facing unprecedented floods, droughts, or heat wavesclimate change is happening right in our backyards.
Scientists have come out lately with a string of dire of sea level rise forecasts. Six feet of sea level rise by the end of the century has been thought to be an extremely unlikely scenarioyet new estimates of melting rates in Antarctica now show it's possible. Importantly, new research has also focused on localizing how different sea level rise scenarios will translate at a very local level, down to the county or even zip code.
Due to geography, geology, and population, these are the places that will have large masses of land disappear, endangering property, roads and bridges, wildlife, causing havoc on people's lives.
Co.Exist has examined recent studies that show how specific U.S. coastal cities and towns will be damaged with rising seas. From New York City to Maryland, many coastlines in the nation are at risk, but two stick out as supremely vulnerablesoutheast Florida and the Louisiana Gulf. Due to geography, geology, and population, these are the places that will have large masses of land disappear, endangering property, roads and bridges, wildlife, causing havoc on people's lives, and making storms more deadly and destructive. The first sea level rise relocation in the United States is now planned in southern Louisiana, for example. In Miami Beach, homeowners expect their property values may start to decrease fairly soon (already, getting flood insurance is all but impossible). Given that the scientific consensus is that much of these districts will be underwater, do the statements and positions from politicians in southeast Florida and the Louisiana Gulf match up with the level of threat to their constituents?
All politics is local, the saying goes. It should now include climate politics. So we looked at these districts representatives in Congress, since these politicians are elected by very specific localities, yet they also have a key role in deciding national policies to rein in greenhouse gas emissions and adapt to warming impacts. It's clear that even in the extremely partisan environment of Congress, the realities of climate change are starting to hit home in at least some of the Congressional districts that are under the greatest threateven if that means bucking Republican orthodoxy to start trying to save these districts.
Southeast Florida
This region is at the forefront of climate change. Miami-Dade and Broward Counties have the two highest populations in the United States that could be displaced by rising sea levels by 2100, according to a recent study in the journal Nature. In addition, a report by Climate Central, a nonpartisan research organization, found that of all zip codes in Florida, Key West comes in third place for the highest number of people, housing units, and property value within three feet of the high tide line (behind Miami Beach and Palm Beach). Frequent floods rising to this level are "near certain" this century, the report says. After only 14 inches of sea level rise, it says, a flood to 2.2 feet in Key West would be an annual eventconsidering most of the islands are less than 6 feet above sea level, huge swaths of the islands would be wiped out and the rest would be so frequently flooded that living there could be miserable.
In the face of this reality, a fear of flooding has sunk into the psyche of many Florida legislators in Congress, from both parties.
Curbelo was one of 10 Republicans to vote against his party in its resolution to gut President Obama's rules to regulate emissions from new power plants.
Freshman Republican Congressman Carlos Curbelo, whose District 26 encompasses the entire southern tip of Florida, including much of the Everglades and all of the Florida Keys, has been a rare voice among House Republicans who accepts the science of climate change and calls for action to address it. Last year, Curbeloalso one of the youngest members of Congressformed the bipartisan Climate Solutions Caucus with a fellow Florida Democrat, and in December, he was one of 10 Republicans to vote against his party in its resolution to gut President Obama's rules to regulate emissions from new power plants. He noted at the time that sea level rise was a "clear and present threat" to Florida's way of life and that 40% of the state's population was at risk. (He did, however, vote with his party to oppose regulating emissions from existing power plants.)
As far as concrete actions, the Climate Solutions Caucus hasn't done much yet, though it only just had its first meeting. Curbelo highlights his own efforts to increase funding for Everglades restoration, create more affordable flood insurance, and reform the existing National Flood Insurance Programwhich is currently in deep debt and unable to keep up with claims payouts.
Democrats in southeast Florida are also vocal about climate change, though none have taken significant leadership on the issue.
In many ways, because of the dynamics of the Housewhere Republicans have blocked all climate change action, Republicans who break with their party have much more power to make change. Southeast Florida's Republican Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, a senior House member whose district includes large parts of Miami-Dade county, has also gone that route, becoming the second Republican to join the bipartisan Climate Solutions Caucus. (She has also signed on to a resolution introduced in September by New York Republican Chris Gibson that declares climate change could have an "adverse" impact on the nation and Congress should work on remedies. This seems like a bare minimum kind of statement, but so far only 12 Republicans have signed on.)
Democrats in southeast Florida's Miami-Dade and Broward counties are also vocal about climate change and act with their party to support climate change actions, though none have taken significant leadership on the issue. Democrats Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Frederica Wilson, and Lois Frankel represent some of the most districts with the most potential damage from sea level rise. Large parts of Wasserman Schultz's Miami Beach, for example, could be underwater in less than 50 yearsand property values will be affected much sooner than that. At least she can talk about sea level rise statistics like a scientist.
Louisiana Gulf
New Orleans and the entire Mississippi Delta region are doomed localesthe first climate refugees in the lower 48 states, who are being evacuated now, hail from this zone. An October 2015 study in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences found that no matter what is done to curb climate change today, virtually all of New Orleans will be flooded eventually (unless it is saved by improved flood control systems). Under a three-foot-sea-level-rise scenario, a study in Nature Climate Change ranked Orleans Parish as the fourth county in the nation in terms of total population at risk from floods by 2100, just after nearby Jefferson Parish, which came in third. About 18% of the projected population of each was at risk of being displaced, the study found.
Even though climate change isn't a cause these politicians love to discuss, they do have to deal with its effects.
Like southeast Florida, the region is doomed if we continue business as usual. The big difference here is that the region's economy is centered on oil and gas drilling, making climate change-friendly policies harder, politically. Officials of both parties are, therefore, interested in protecting the fossil fuel industry to varying extents. But even though climate change isn't a cause these politicians love to discuss, they do have to deal with its effects, such as skyrocketing flood insurance rates and sinking state highways. And that reality means that in southern Louisiana, there is one more rare Republican willing to acknowledge climate science.
In flood-prone District 6, which covers an area from Baton Rouge to the Gulf, first-time Republican Congressman Garret Graves believes climate change is real. As former state coastal restoration commissioner, he had previously grappled directly with sea level rise. He has been one of the few great hopes in his party for environmentalists. But that hasn't quite panned out, as the region's oil interests (and his Koch Brothers' donations) have taken precedence in his voting record. He still will acknowledge climate changewhich is more than many of his colleaguesbut he has blocked the Obama administration's efforts to regulate emissions from power plants, calling them too expensive.
Although Scalise has lobbied for funding to raise the elevation of the flood-prone state roadway LA-1, he has long decried "global warming alarmism."
On the other hand, we have District 1, which includes Jefferson Parish, the shores of Lake Pontchartrain, and the petroleum center Port Fourchon. The district is represented by Steve Scalise, the third-ranked Republican in the House. Scalise is heavily funded by the oil industry. Although he has lobbied for funding to raise the elevation of the flood-prone state roadway LA-1, and recently posted on Instagram about "historic flooding events" in his district, he has long decried "global warming alarmism" and questioned the science of man-made climate change. In his role as House whip, he has led Republican efforts in the House to block the Obama administration's climate rules.
Meanwhile, Democrat Cedric Richmond, who represents New Orleans's District 2, is a lot better, though he is far from a climate change leader. Yes, he has a pretty good record voting for measures to address climate change (he has also voted to support oil and gas interests). But considering the threat his city faces, he has not been vocal or exhibited much leadership on the issue. A search of his website reveals that even in his efforts to reform and expand flood insurance and disaster assistance, he has not made any effort to talk about climate change or sea level rise impacts.
What's clear is that, in at-risk coastal areas, climate change can't be ignored, even by partisan ideologues (unless you're Rep. Scalise). But the rest of the country that isn't living under the threat of immediate flooding also needs to come to understand the gravity of the situation if Congress is ever to take the actions to curb greenhouse gas emissions that are needed to lead the world to a safer future. With open Senate seats in both Florida and Louisiana, the 2016 election should reveal whether climate change can become an election issue that matters in the states that could be flooded by the century's end.
Related Video: The Cop21 Climate Talks And How They'll Affect Your Business(Your browser doesn't support iframe)
This article was written by Jessica Leber from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 6 Ways to Make Your Mornings Feel Less Hectic
description: If you don't start your day by joyously leaping out of bed for an early run followed by a long shower, leisurely breakfast, and hour-long meditation session, we feel you. But there are a few simple things you can add to your morning routine to make the a.m. feel less OMG how is it this late already?! These six tips will not only help your mornings feel less hecticthey'll also set a positive tone for your entire day.1. Start the night before.
Have some sort of practice before you fall asleep, says Kristi Ling, author of Operation Happiness. Ling suggests writing in a gratitude journalwe know it sounds silly, but it works!or simply going over something positive from your day. The idea is to do something uplifting and happy before you go to sleep.
Its also best to ditch your electronics 45 to 60 minutes before bed and prep for the day ahead instead. That could mean packing your bag, getting lunch ready, or laying out an outfit.
I keep my robe at the foot of my bed, so when I sit up in the morning, its right there, Ling says. You could also put a glass of water on your bedside table or set out your slippers. The idea is to do something that guarantees you start your day with a little act of self-love, Ling says.2. Sweat some.
A little movement goes a long way. A morning workout can up your energy for the rest of the day and help you feel better about your work-life balance. Research even suggests you get a better workout (i.e., burn more fat and build more muscle) before a morning meal. 1
You're also way more likely to actually work out if you do it first thing, says productivity coach Jeff Sanders on his podcast, "The 5 AM Miracle." Just be sure to pick a workout you really enjoywhether that's a psych-you-up HIIT routine or gentle yoga.
Works Cited
Neural responses to visual food stimuli after a normal vs. higher protein breakfast in breakfast-skipping teens: a pilot fMRI study. Leidy HJ, Lepping RJ, Savage CR. Obesity (Silver Spring, Md.), 2011, May.;19(10):1930-739X. Effects of exercise before or after meal ingestion on fat balance and postprandial metabolism in overweight men. Farah NM, Gill JM. The British journal of nutrition, 2012, Oct.;109(12):1475-2662.
3. Stop multitasking.
News flash: Were all terrible at multitasking. Whats more, constantly dividing your attention between multiple projects generally makes you feel more frenzied than if you simply focused on one thing at a time.
Ask yourself, what are you doing in the morning thats wasting time? Ling says. If you spend 5 minutes scrolling through Instagram while haphazardly brushing your teeth, then have to rush out the door like your house is on fire, consider eliminating social media.
Along those same lines, try to avoid email for at least the first 15 to 30 minutes after you wake up. When you check email right away, youre filling your mind with others peoples goals or agendas," Ling says. Instead, use that time to focus on yourself.4. Drink water and eat a solid breakfast.
Your new morning priorities: hydration and nutrition.
We all wake up dehydrated, so the No. 1 thing I do is drink a big glass of water, Ling says.
Likewise, Sanders describes water as "incredibly energizing" on his podcast. "It clears your mind and your body for doing great work all day long." If you think this sounds bogus, it's not. Studies have found that even mild dehydration can leave you feeling fatigued and moody.
And make time to grab a quick breakfast. Just be sure it's packed with protein and is low in sugar. That way youll avoid a midmorning crash and stay full until lunch.5. Do something positive right away.
If you have a side hustle or passion project, work on that first thing. Not only will you feel more energized upon wakingbecause hey, you get to do something you love right away!but it will also help start your day on a positive note.
Or try this: Send a nice text or email to a friend, coworker, or family member every morning.
I call it electronic fairy dust, Ling says. It can be something very simple like, Im thinking of you, or Youre doing great on this project.6. Set your intention for the day.
We know: Your morning is already hectic, and here we are giving you one more to-do. But hear us out. Take one to two minutes and set an intention for your day (you can even do this while youre still in bed). It can be broad or specificanything from show more gratitude to wow my boss at that 1 p.m. meeting."
Its just a quick practice, and it starts your day on the right foot, Ling says.
If you'd rather be on autopilot, Sanders suggests writing down your intention, along with a plan for the following day, before you go to sleep. "You're going to be more likely to make that happen when you've got it on paper," he says.
This article was written by The Greatist Team from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: One in Five of Worlds Plant Species at Risk of Extinction
description: By Damian Carrington, The Guardian
One in five of the worlds plant species is threatened with extinction, according to the first global assessment of flora, putting supplies of food and medicines at risk.
But the report also found that 2,000 new species of plant are discovered every year, raising hopes of new sources of food that are resilient to disease and climate change. New finds in 2015 included a giant insect-eating plant first spotted on Facebook and a 100-tonne tree hidden in an African forest.One of the biggest factors threatening plant species is the destruction of habitats, including for farming, such as palm oil production.
Credit: CIFOR/flickr
The State of the Worlds Plants report, by experts at theRoyal Botanic Gardens Kew, reveals that there are currently 390,000 species of known plants, with more than 30,000 used by people. However, more than 5,000 species have invaded foreign countries and are causingbillions of dollars of damageevery year.
Plants are absolutely fundamental to humankind, said Prof Kathy Willis, director of science at Kew, who led the new report. Plants provide us with everything - food, fuel, medicines, timber and they are incredibly important for our climate regulation. Without plants we would not be here. We are facing some devastating realities if we do not take stock and re-examine our priorities and efforts.
The report is the first of what will be an annual benchmark analysis to set out what is known - and not known - about plants and highlight critical issues and how they can be tackled. I am reasonably optimistic, said Willis. Once you know [about a problem], you can do something about it. The biggest problem is not knowing.
The biggest factors threatening plant species with extinction are the destruction of habitats for farming (31 percent) - such aspalm oil productionand cattle ranching,deforestation for timber(21 percent) and construction of buildings and infrastructure (13 percent).
Climate change is currently a smaller factor
4 percent
but is likely to grow. I suspect we wont actually see the full impact until 30 years down the line as it takes so long for plants, especially trees, to produce their offspring, said Willis. One importantcrop that is already suffering is coffee, as rising temperatures make the beans impossible to grow and increase diseases in key countries such as Ethiopia.
But the rate of new discoveries is a positive development, Willis said. I find that really encouraging and exciting. We are still finding new species of trees, new species of food: five new species of onion were found last year, for example. Scientists at Kew alone identify 200-300 new species a year.
There are huge areas of the world where we just dont know what is growing there, said Willis. They may hold the key to the future of food. Genetic diversity in our foods is becoming poorer and poorer.
Many important crops have been bred over thousands of years to produce high yields, but have lost genes that help fight pests and cope with changes in climate. Bananas, sorghum and aubergines are among those with very little genetic diversity, making them highly vulnerable to new threats. Finding wild relatives of such crops means new, more robust varieties can be bred.The coffee plant is already suffering as rising temperatures make the beans impossible to grow and increase diseases.
Credit: CIDSE/flickr
Now, with the global challenges [of] population size, land-use change, plant diseases and pests, there is an increasing urgency to find and conserve crop wild relatives, said the report. Having access to this large and diverse genetic pool is essential if we are to furnish crops with the valuable traits that enable resilience to climate change, pests and diseases, and ultimately underpin global food security.
Among the 2,000 new plants discovered in 2015 was an insect-eating sundew (Drosera magnifica) which grows to five feet, far bigger than most sundews. It is known to grow only on a mountain in Minas Gerais, Brazil, and was first discovered on Facebook, when a sundew specialist was reviewing photos taken years earlier by an orchid hunter.
Another new discovery was a 150-foot tree,Gilbertiodendron maximum, weighing more than 110 tons, which is known only in the rainforest in Gabon and is critically endangered. Five new custard apples and ylang-ylang relatives were also found along with a new species of sweet potato.
The importance of plants for the development of new medicines was revealed in the report, which found that 57 percent of the 31,000 species with known uses were those from which drugs were derived. More than 5,500 are human foods, while there are 2,500 poisons and 1,400 with social uses, such as tobacco and cannabis.
However, when plants are transplanted into alien environments they can causegreat damage and become invasive. The costs of invasive species have been estimated at nearly 5 percent of the world economy and their impact on the UK economy alone is approximately 1.7bn every year, said the report.
The highly invasive Japanese knotweed (Reynoutria japonica), introduced as an ornamental plant to Britain in the mid-19th century, costs the nation more than 165m a year to control. Like many invasive species, it is difficult to eradicate because it can survive even when cut back. They are quite happy to survive underground and then sprout out the moment you turn your back, said Willis.
The illegal trade in threatened plants is also a problem, the report found. At Heathrow, one of the the worlds busiest airports, officers made at least one seizure every day on average, with 42 perecent of the finds being orchids.
Although plants are the foundation of most life on Earth, Willis said they were easy to take for granted: They are not cute ... and we teach [children about] plants in a really boring way.
Reprinted from The Guardian with permission.
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Why Everyone Needs to Calm Down About Tylenol and Empathy
description: We probably rely on Tylenol more than we should. Sore after a hard workout? Pop a pain reliever. Hungover? You guessed it. In fact, the Consumer Healthcare Products Association estimates that 23 percent of all U.S. adults consume a drug containing acetaminophenthe active ingredient in Tylenolevery week.
So when a recent study showed acetaminophen stops you from feeling others' pain, you can bet it got a lot of people's attention. But are we really all now cold and unfeeling because of a common pain reliever? Not necessarily.
The study consisted of just two small experimentsthe first surveyed 80 college students and the second, 114 college students. "In order to come to such a sweeping conclusion, the sample size needs to be in the thousands and needs to be taken out of the insular walls of a college and conducted in the real world," says Bola Oyeyipo, M.D., of Healthgist.com.
Nesochi Okeke-Igbokwe, M.D., M.S., of New York University Hospitalist Group, had a similar reaction. "The bottom line is that further research is still needed on this topic before coming to any definitive conclusions," she says.
It's also important to note that the changes observed were minimal, so even if Tylenol does affect empathy, it probably wouldn't be noticeable.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Is Why You Ugly Cry
description: No one looks cute during an obligatory series finale cry sessionespecially when there's mascara involved. (OK, unless you're Beyonc.) But as this video explains, we're pretty powerless to the ugly cry. As our blood vessels dilate, our faces actually contort to push tears up and out of our eyes.
It's not all bad news, though. Ugly crying also makes us more likely to receive support (read: hugs) from the people around us. Stay tuned to the end of the video for a hilarious description of how these tears can even affect your partner's sex drive.
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This 100-Year-Old Runner Just Broke a World Record
description: Your browser does not support iframes.
Talk about #lifegoals. Ida Keeling, a 100-year-old athlete, just broke the world record for the fastest 100-yard dash among female centenarians at the Penn Relays in Philadelphia. According to a recent profile in The New York Times, she started training at the age of 67 as a way of coping with the deaths of her two sons. This isn't the only record she holds; she also won the title for the fastest 60-meter time for female Americans in the 95- to 99-year-old age division. Consider this your inspiration of the yearor the century!
(h/t NBC Sports)
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Reading on a Screen Can Actually Be Good for You
description: Tech gets a bad rap for being endlessly distracting (which explains how you ended up 31 weeks deep on your friend's ex-boyfriend's Instagram), but a new study found that if you're looking to focus, screens are actually better than physical books. But, of course, there are a few caveats. First, this was a relatively small study (300 participants) on college-age students. Second, while the students who read on laptops were better at answering concrete comprehension questions, the students who read the same passage on paper aced the ones that required abstract thinking.
So if you're memorizing facts for an exam or you need to remember bullet points for a presentation at work, you're probably OK reading them on your computer. But if you're reading fiction or anything that requires a little imagination, you're better off sticking to a hard copy.
(h/t Psychology Today)
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: When The Data Bubble Bursts, Companies Will Have To Actually Sell Things Again
description: How can a company with no revenues still make money? It's not a trick question. The answer is at the very foundation of the digital economy: advertising.
No matter how dire things get for musicians, writers, movies, websites, smart phone apps, video games, or whole social media platforms, no matter how hard it might be for companies to charge for content, services, or convenience, almost everything we are doing in the digital marketplace can serve as the advertisement for something else. The video game promotes a movie, the movie promotes an app, and the app promotes a video game. Heck, this article indirectly promotes a book.
The trouble is, if everyone is in it for the advertising dollar, who is left to advertise? At no point in history has advertising, marketing, and research ever accounted for as high a percentage of GDP, or total economic activity (and that's being extremely generous). But right now, it's pushing at the very top of that range. The reason it can't go higher is that only so much economic activity can go to promoting the rest of our economic activity. The coming crash in the tech marketand quite possibly beyondwill be triggered by the growing realization that every company in the world can't be a marketing company.
Throwing Rocks At The Google Bus, by Douglas Rushkoff, is available now.
From the looks of it, this simple math has not trickled up to the leaders in venture capital or the investors in NASDAQ's tech giants. As they see it, just because a retail business sells products at a loss doesn't necessarily put it in a worse positionfinancially speakingthan any other Internet platform, smartphone app, or GPS utility that takes little or no cash from its multitude of users. The goal isn't to earn revenue, but to sell the whole company to an acquirer or Wall Street . And in the current landscape of pitiful revenue, the fantasy "big data play" has become the holy grail of exit strategies.
So instead of earning revenue, these companies harvest user data. In theory, every user interaction can be sold to market researchers looking for better ways to target audiences, craft messages, categorize psychographics, and predict behaviors. The potential upside of all this data far exceeds the pennies one can collect selling something, or so the logic goes. It makes sense in a world where no one has money to spend online, anyway.
It certainly works, at least in the short run. Musician and producer Jay Z, for instance, figured out early on that he could make more money in data than music. So he gave away an entire album to his fans, only it was in the form of an app, a piece of spyware, that monitored their usage patterns and upsold the associated data to Samsung to do with or sell as they please.
Even on e-commerce sites, in many cases the profitability of retail transactions pales in comparison with that of the big data they leave in their wake. Creating relationships with consumers is really just about engendering enough trust to get them to share their data assets with you.
Producers of everything from culture to products have to be tuned toif not entirely geared towardreaching easily identified social audiences. This is not a soft science, like determining the audience for a printed magazine or market for a new style of blue jean. It's hard data on engagement. Our productsmy books, this website, your mutual fund advisement serviceswill be less valuable as goods and services than as the means through which we accumulate followers on social networks, whom we then sell to brands. So our goods and services better be brand-friendly and our markets pre-selected for their data richness.
Even social media deserves a better role in our lives and businesses than this.
Furthermore, unscrupulous website owners have now learned to use robotic ad-viewing programs to juice their revenue from pay-per-click advertising. Most of these bot programs run secretly on the computers of everyday users in the form of malware, a kind of mini-virus that co-opts a computer's processing power. Bots now comprise an estimated 25% of all online video ad viewers. That means up to a quarter of all the data out there isn't even about humans.
In 2015, advertisers lost approximately $6.3 billion in pay-per-click fees to these imaginary viewers. Consider the irony: malware robots watch ads, monitored by automated tracking software that tailors each advertising message to suit the malbots' automated habits, in a human-free feedback loop of ever-narrowing "personalization." Nothing of value is created, but billions of dollars are made.
Eventually, social branding has to run out of fodder. As more and more markets lose all revenue potential except what they can make as social media marketing platforms, who is left to buy all this marketing and consumer data? Especially when it's about robotic ad-clicking algorithms that don't ever buy anything themselves? Consumer goods like soap and potato chips may have been able to keep mainstream broadcast television alive with advertising, but they cannot support the multibillion-dollar valuations of Silicon Valley and the future of the entire digital economy.
No, instead, companies are going to have to begin to venture into the perilous, experimental, and highly speculative option of charging people for stuff. Think HBO. It's a radical approach to goods and services in which people pay directly for what you're offering.
If what you're doing has any value at all, it deserves to be supported by your customers. If you're counting on the ads to take up the slack, you may be out of luck.
Douglas Rushkoff is an author, teacher, and documentarian who focuses on the ways people, cultures, and institutions create, share, and influence each other's values. His latest book is Throwing Rocks at the Google Bus.
This article was written by Douglas Rushkoff from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Young Forests Can Store Enormous Amounts of Carbon
description: Woodland areas that regrow after forest fires, logging operations or other disturbances can sequester huge amounts of carbon dioxide and they play an unexpectedly valuable role in mitigating climate change, according to a study by 60 scientists from across the globe.
The research, published Friday in the journal Science Advances, is the first to quantify how much carbon these so-called second-growth forests can sequester, and it turns out its huge. The scientists found that over the span of 40 years, Latin American second-growth forests can stash away the equivalent of 21 years worth of the regions human carbon dioxide emissions.
An aerial photograph of primary and secondary forest and agriculture fields on the Southern Pacific Coast of Costa Rica.
Credit:Anglica Almeyda Zambrano/Science Advances
Forests especially tropical rainforests such as the Amazon absorb carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and store it in tree trunks, roots and soil.
When researchers have considered the role of forests in stabilizing the climate, theyve looked primarily at preventing deforestation and the carbon storage capabilities of tropical old-growth forests. Old-growth trees those that have never been cut store the most carbon. The Amazon alone stores about a quarter of all human carbon dioxide emissions.
{related}
Second-growth forests
young forests less than 60 years old that have naturally re-grown or regenerated after being cut down are overlooked mainly because of a lack of data about how much carbon new forests can store. They are not included in any countrys United Nations greenhouse gas emissions reduction commitments.
Jos Maria Cardoso da Silva, an ecologist at the University of Miami who is unaffiliated with the study, said the concept of second-growth forests has never been well-defined, nor have they been mapped accurately, and their carbon storage capabilities have never been studied closely.
The new study uses computer models to estimate the carbon storage potential of young forests allowed to regrow naturally between 2008 and 2048. That approach may provide the information needed to include younger forests in regional emissions reductions goals, he said.
The researchers found that any forest that is cut and allowed to regrow naturally in Latin America will double its carbon storage capacity within 20 years and increase that storage by 120 percent in 40 years. The study shows that all of Latin Americas secondary lowland forests can store the equivalent of all of the human carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuel use and industry in Latin America between 1993 and 2014.
This is the first time that the potential contribution of natural regeneration to carbon mitigation has been quantified, said study lead author Robin Chazdon, a tropical forest ecologist at the University of Connecticut.
The study leaves out carbon storage in soils and roots, which add about 25 percent to a forests carbon storage potential, and it excludes forests in mountainous areas. Because of that, the study may significantly underestimate the amount of carbon young forests can store, the researchers say.
A second-growth rainforest near Rio de Janeiro in Brazil. The forest is about 30 years old.
Credit: Robin Chazdon/Science Advances
Da Silva said the study is a good first step in convincing countries to take second-growth forests into account when developing their strategies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
Now that scientists have a better idea about the role new forests can play as part of the solution to climate change, future climate policies can more effectively encourage re-growing previously cut forests as part of the solution to climate change, the study says.
This enormous amount of carbon storage does not require any costly tree planting or conversion of farmlands present in 2008, Chazdon said. It is all based on natural forest regrowth and only requires persistence of young forests and abandoned agricultural fields present in 2008.
Allowing forests to regrow after being logged, however, isnt enough to fully compensate for Latin Americas greenhouse gas emissions, which need to be drastically cut in order to meet global climate goals, she said.
But natural regeneration of forests will help quite a bit at low cost and with many other benefits for biodiversity, water conservation and ecotourism, she said.
The studys conclusions can also be applied to secondary forests in other tropical regions beset by deforestation, such as Southeast Asia and West Africa. It shows that if clearcut forests all over the tropics can be allowed to re-grow, the climate can benefit, said Sophie Fauset, a geographer at the University of Leeds in the United Kingdom who is unaffiliated with the study.
This is in some ways a very easy way to reduce the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, as nothing needs to be done simply leaving the land to regenerate she said.
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Sorry I Didn't Go to Your Bday Party/Happy Hour/Group Dinner
description: I want to apologize.
First, I want to apologize that were not having this conversation face-to-face. Sometimes I get nervous. Its much easier to say what I want to say in writing, where I can obsess over each word and carefully craft each sentence.
So Ill start by apologizing for that. Ill start by apologizing that Im putting some distance between us. By now, though, Im sure youre wondering why Im actually apologizing. So lets just get to that.
I know you sent me that Facebook invite and I clicked going or interested, or I just didnt respond. I know last week when you brought up your event, I said something positive but noncommittal like, Yeah, that could be fun. I know when you sent me that message to come meet up with you last minute, I pretended like I didnt see it or like I was already asleep.
And then, after all that, I didnt even make an appearance at your birthday party/house warming/improv show/casual get-together/group dinner/art opening/college reunion/happy hour/bonfire/wedding/bris/______ (your event here).
Im sorry. I really am.
I know my Meyers-Briggs type says Im an extrovert (ENTJ). My public personathe constant attention-seeking behaviors, the joy in meeting new people, the public speaking and performancesunderscores my extroversion.
There was even a time when I actively felt like the worlds biggest extrovert. If my calendar wasnt full seven days of the week, I felt a little depressed. I couldnt imagine a fate worse than sitting at home eating a sad little stir-fry, watching Battlestar Galactica.September 2014But that was two years ago.
Now, in May 2016, I dont feel very extroverted. More and more, I find myself celebrating an empty calendar. More and more, I find myself savoring the weekends with extra me timewhether thats simply reading a book, playing a video game, or even cleaning my house (thats some real zen sh*t right there). More and more, I fear the weekends where the purple and red blocks define my schedule rather than my own whims and fancies.
More and more, I find myself celebrating an empty calendar.
The issue is, of course, on that same Saturday night, the one where I dream of organizing my desk or clicking around on the computer, youve also invited me to your event. Crap.
At this point, Id like to take a minute to recognize that I am not some special snowflake. I dont sit at home, worrying that your party isnt complete without me. I know youre going to have a great time whether Im there or not. Hell, you may not have even noticed that I never showed up.
But on the other side of the city, while I listen to a podcast and walk my dog, I cant shake the guilty feeling of having bailed on you. Knowing that my too busy was really just this. Youre my friend, after all. I care about you.
The problem is that every choice we make comes with a very real cost. Even if the event is free, anything we decide to do costs us time and energy. And unlike money, those investments are nonrenewable.
The Importance of Picking Two
In college, there was this chart some of my friends passed around. It was a triangle with three options, but you could only choose two
sleep, studying, or a social life.As creative people, we all must choose two. We must pick between down time, social time, and creative time.
Obviously, Id like to have it all. Id like to work on my creative projects, go out all night, and still have enough time to sleep and relax, but its just not possible. Choosing all three means spreading myself too thinrather than succeeding at any one or two, I fail at all three. And thats not a fun place to be.
Now, to clarify, I am not a shut in. I havent barricaded my door, thrown out my cell phone, and closed myself off to the world. I still go out and socialize. I will still be at your really big events. Ill still have you over for dinner or meet up and grab coffee.
But with my current choose two, I cant come to every improv show, birthday party, and happy hour like I used to. I cant cover my calendar in purple and red blocks and still have the energy to write blogs, speak at events, publish books, create courses, and record podcasts.
Some people recharge in social settingsthats what extroverts are supposed to do. But Ive found that thats just not the case for me. Even when Im having fun out on the town, I still need time at home (and lots of sleep) to keep my energy levels up.
The choice Im making, for better or worse, is to be more creative and have more time for myself to recharge.
We all have our own choices to make. Maybe youve chosen social life and down time or creative time and social time, and thats totally fine! No choice is inherently better than any otherjust so long as you know that youre actively making those choices every day.
Right now, the choice Im making, for better or worse, is to be more creative and have more time for myself to recharge. And that means theres only one other thing I can give up.
But maybe some time you could come over and we could play a board game? That would be fun.
This article originally appeared on Medium and was republished with the author's permission. Ben Noble is an author, improviser, and blogger. To learn more about getting inspired, mastering time management, and building creative habits that stick, sign up for his weekly newsletter, the Monday Memo, at immakingallthisup.com. You'll also receive a free, three-page guide thatll help you become more creative in just 10 minutes.
This article was written by Ben Noble from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Los Angeles's New Train Gets You To The Beach Without A Car
description: In 1961, the last Red Car trolley ran from downtown Los Angeles to Long Beach, part of an electric streetcar system that once covered 1,110 miles of tracks (more than the New York City subway system today). Fifty-five years later, after the city became synonymous with car culture, it's finally going to be possible to take a train to the beach in L.A. again.
The new train is an extension of the city's Expo Line, which will now run from Santa Monica (a couple of blocks from the sand) to downtown, where riders can change trains and keep going as far as Azusa in the San Gabriel Valley.(Your browser doesn't support iframe)The project started almost 30 years ago, when public transit advocates in Santa Monica discovered that the old Red Car right of way was for sale, and convinced the transit agency to invest in it. Decades later, the new train will start running on May 20.
"It's the only public transit of its kind that goes right out to the beach in L.A.," says Los Angeles County Supervisor Sheila Kuehl, one of the earliest supporters of the project. Beyond connecting Angelenos to recreation, it's also an important new way to commute to work.
"Over the past decade, maybe longer, we've noticed a major shift from all of the traffic going downtown in the morning, and back west at night, to exactly the opposite," Kuehl says. "Traffic is going west in the morning, and east bumper to bumper at night ... this will be a major connector for people living all over the county to their work."
While having the train might not solve local traffic problems completely, it will give people an alternative to sitting on the freeway for a couple of hours each day. "The 10 [freeway] is so jammed that you could cut traffic in half and still be stuck in traffic," she says. "But think about having 50,000 cars off the 10 and off the surface streets. I think it can really help."
L.A.'s previous streetcar system was dismantled for a variety of reasons. Carsand a new freeway infrastructurewas seen by most people as the future. Buses were seen as more modern and flexible than trains. Because the streetcar system was originally designed by real estate developersnot the citystops weren't necessarily well-located for everyone who needed to use them. And, as the movie Who Framed Roger Rabbit implied, the process was probably at least somewhat helped along by corporations such as GM, which pushed for the shift to the buses it manufactured (and invested in National City Lines, which bought and dismantled L.A.'s smaller Yellow Line).
If the streetcars hadn't disappeared half a century ago, the city would likely be different today. "The way people think about traveling in Los Angeles would be very different had we retained not just the red car out to the beach, but the whole public transit system that we had," says Kuehl, who grew up riding the streetcars. "People would have thought of L.A. as a place where you took public transit, like so many other major cities in the world. I think it could have made a big difference."
Photos: via Metro - Los Angeles Flickr
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Two Computer Scientists Are Programming An End To Food Waste In Chicago
description: Every day Rajesh Karmani has to solve a complex logistics puzzle. On one side are more than 100 food donors (restaurants, corporate cafeterias, groceries and catering companies). On the other are 250 nonprofits that need food, including homeless shelters and after-school programs.
In the middle is software that does the matching. For every bagel, frozen vegetable, or lasagna there is an answer, generated by a computer and approved by a human.
Karmani's Chicago nonprofit Zero Percent is currently servicing an impressive 80 nonprofits a week. Two and half years after it was started, the waste logistics platforms has matched-and-moved 316,400 pounds of food.
The challenge of food waste, says Karmani, is the inconsistency of it. On any given day, he doesn't know what's going to be available. He might have too many bananas, but not enough bagels, and so on. That will always create a headache. But the software is learning over time, seeing patterns in what and when certain places donate and when and what certain recipients might want. The system should get more efficient.
Karmani started Zero Percent with his friend, CTO Caleb Phillips. Karmani and Phillips met online when they were working on separate food waste projects in different states. Both were computer science PhDs at the time. In late 2013, they both moved to Chicago and lived hand-to-mouth to start their work.
Zero Percent charges nothing to the recipient nonprofits. It charges the donors $60 to $100 a month, depending on how much waste they have. In addition, it offers to do the donors' tax paperwork and to give them in-depth waste analytics. This should help donors cut down on their waste over timebut Karmani isn't too worried about running out of food. There's plenty of it.
Now that it's established in Chicago, Zero Percent is pursuing projects in two other cities: Nashville, Tennessee, and Minneapolis, Minnesota. The first is with the Natural Resources Defense Council, which will use the Zero Percent app to increase donations and matching. The second is with Compass food service, which Zero Percent already works with in Chicago.
Meanwhile, Zero Percent also recently launched FoodRescue.io, a crowdfunding platform for its nonprofit network. Each $5 someone donates to one of the 250 organizations translates to 15 to 25 meals, Zero Percent says. If everyone on Chicago gave $5 a month, the city could make fresh food available everywhere, Karmani says.
Zero Percent's high energy, software-focused approach seems to be doing to the job in Chicago. It will be fascinating to see if it can duplicate its success elsewhere.
Cover Photo: Flickr user Ken Lund
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: A Yoga and Pilates Hybrid Workout You Can Do Anywhere
description: There are a ton of benefits to practicing both yoga and barre, but its easy to feel like you need a fancy studio to make it happen. Not true!
Not only does this workout blend the two methods together, but the low-impact routine can also be done anywhere you can fit a yoga matno equipment or barres required.
Certified yoga instructor Brett Larkin will take you through flowing poses from vinyasa yoga while incorporating some key barre moves thatll make you feel the burn. Its like the best of both worlds.
All youll need is a yoga mat. A yoga block is optional if you have one. Press play to get started.
Looking for more short and effective at-home workouts? Grokker has thousands of routines, so youll never get bored. Bonus: For a limited time, Greatist readers get 40 percent off Grokker Premium (just $9 per month) and their first 14 days free. Sign up now!
This article was written by molly ritterbeck from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Theres a Good Reason Your Body Is 98.6 Degrees
description: Growing up we were allowed to stay home from school only if our fever crept above 100 degrees. So anytime we had a stuffy nose, we'd take a long, hot shower to push up the thermometer reading. But we never considered the significance of our body's typical temperature: a balmy 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit (37 degrees Celsius for the rest of the world).
Turns out our bodies have a good reason for being so stubbornour skin even expands and contracts to keep us close to the magic number. As this video from SciShow explains, regulating temperature is the body's way of fighting fungus from growing inside us. Too cold: Wed be no better than a giant petri dish. Too warm: We wouldnt have enough energy to move. Scientists calculated 36.6 degrees Celsius to be the sweet spot where we kill fungus but don't burn too much energy. So at least in terms of temperature, we're pretty damn close to perfect.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: There's No Evidence Yet That Probiotics Benefit Healthy People
description: A decade ago, it might have been hard to find kefir outside health food stores or Eastern European groceries. Now the yogurt-like drink is in any dairy aisle, riding the surge of popularity of probiotics. By 2018, probiotic food sales in the U.S. may reach $10 billion; probiotic supplements may reach $2.5 billion.
Manufacturers tout the potential for the products, which are filled with live microorganisms, to help support a healthy gut and immune system. And for certain medical issues, such as irritable bowel syndrome or ulcerative colitis, there's evidence that probiotics can help. Whether they can help people who are otherwise healthy is another question.
A new study from researchers at the University of Copenhagen looked seven randomized controlled trials of fecal microbiotai.e., the bacteria living in poopand found that, so far, there's no evidence that consuming probiotics makes any difference for already healthy people.
Flickr user Health Gauge
Only one study showed more diversity of beneficial bugs in the poop of people who consumed probiotics; none of the others showed any difference in the number of different kinds of bacteria or how they were distributed.
That's not to say, as some headlines did, that probiotics are a waste of money. That is the "wrong interpretation" of the study, says senior author Oluf Pedersen. The trials that the meta-study examined had some issues, such as small sample sizes and no control of people's variations in diet, which can also affect gut microbiota. There's also no consensus on what a "normal" population of bacteria in the gut should be. The real conclusion: There's a need for better designed, carefully conducted clinical trials before it's possible to say what effect probiotics might have and whether buying supplements is money well spent.
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: See The 174 Largest African Mammals In One Frightening Infographic
description: There are nine species of gazelle living in Africa, five species of fox, and more than 50 species of primates (a new monkey species was discovered as recently as 2012). Then there are aoudads, blesboks, lechwes, and other animals most people have never heard of.
A fascinating infographic called Endangered Safari charts the 174 largest African mammals, color-coded by how endangered each species is. The direction each animal faces shows whether the population is increasing or decreasing; if you hover over the animal, you can also see a map of its range.
Designer R.J. Andrews was inspired to create the visualization after he and his wife, a physician, lived in Africa in 2015 doing global health work. He would visit different national parks and was awed by the diversity of life there.
The visualization pulls data from the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species and shows the most endangered animals in red and orange. "When I found this data, I discovered that it really hadn't been presented in a way that the average data-illiterate consumer can appreciate," he says.
The simple silhouettes are meant to create an emotional connection with viewers, and the arrangement of animals is intentionally overwhelming. "I wanted to create a feeling like you're being overpowered by the animals," says Andrews. It was a feeling he continually experienced on safari. At one park, he watched as wildebeest approached a river, and crocodiles, hearing them, lined up in preparation. Lions waited nearby. Then baboons sounded an alarm, and the wildebeest bolted.
"It's not like going to a zoo here, where it's like, here's an animal on its own," he says. "There's actually an enormous amount of complexity, in terms of how the animals related to one another."
Andrews recently won the Data Stories competition for a video based on the infographic. Watch here:(Your browser doesn't support iframe)
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 7 One-Dish Chicken Dinners
description: We spend a lot of time scouring the Web for tasty, trendy, and healthy recipes. It's one of the many perks of working at Greatist. In the process, we come across some amazing resources for easy meals that prove cooking healthy doesn't have to be expensive or a giant time suck. And now, we want to make a habit of sharing them with you!
This week, we asked our friend Nagi Maehashi of RecipeTin Eats to share some of her best one-dish chicken dinners. She loves creating delicious meals with a wow factor that are simple to make. These seven are like flavor explosions that require next-to-no cleanup. Who doesn't love the sound of that?1. Lemon Garlic Chicken Potato Bake
Don't you love a recipe with barely any chopping? Just throw everything in the pan and bake. The only problem is that everyone fights over the sauce. Seriously.2. Mexican Chicken and Rice
If the Mexican chicken doesn't get you, then the red beans and rice will. Baking the chicken on top of the rice is like boiling each grain in triple-strength broth. No joke, be prepared for big-time flavor!3. Baked Greek Chicken Orzo
This recipe is perfect for a midweek meal loaded with vegetables and lots of flavor. The list of ingredients looks long, but there are actually a lot of repeat ingredients you'll use on both the chicken and the orzo, so don't be intimidated.4. Chinese Chicken
This super-easy dish is made from scratch using everyday ingredients you can get from any supermarket. It has all the flavors of fried rice but doesn't require you to make the rice the night before. Because surely no one is that organized, right?5. Baked Chicken Shawarma and Rice
This one combines two of my favorite Middle Eastern foods in one skillet: chicken shawarma and rice pilaf. Yum! It's very low effort, but the flavor level is off the charts.6. Chicken Enchilada Rice
All you need is a handful of essentials to make this incredible, comfort-food-central meal. It will satisfy an enchilada craving with plenty of gooey cheesemy knees get weak just describing it!7. Greek Chicken and Lemon Rice
The chicken here is scrumptious, but this, my friends, is all about the rice. And my readers agree. You will knock the socks off anyone you serve this to!
For more fast, creative meal ideas, follow Nagi Maehashi on Pinterest, Facebook, or Instagram.
This article was written by RecipeTin Eats from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Robot Hand Teaches Itself To Manipulate Objects--Just Like A Human
description: Robot hands are amazing, but compared to human hands, they're junk. A robot has real trouble catching things, or letting go of an object in order to shift its grip. You and I can reposition a pencil in our fingers with no effort at all. A robot will probably drop it.
And the problem isn't the hand itself. It's the brain. A robot needs to be told what to do, and how to do it, with every action broken down into steps. But the Adroit robot from the University of Washington, though, can work things out for itself, learning through trial and error how to complete surprisingly complex actions.
"Usually people look at a motion and try to determine what exactly needs to happen," co-author Emo Todorov told the Washington Edu News. "The pinky needs to move that way, so we'll put some rules in and try it and if something doesn't work, oh the middle finger moved too much and the pen tilted, so we'll try another rule."
(Your browser doesn't support iframe)\The Adroit platform takes UW's own $300,000 custom robo-hand and connects it to learning software. The trick was to teach a computer simulation of the hand to perform basic tasks, proceeding to more complex maneuvers like spinning a cylinder on its palm. Then the hand goes to work on the same situation, only in real life.
"It's like sitting through a lesson, going home and doing your homework to understand things better, and then coming back to school a little more intelligent the next day," lead researcher Vikash Kumar told the site.
The hand and its computer brain are hooked up to an array of sensors and cameras, feeding the results into learning algorithms. Combined, the hand can learn to do complex, real-world tasks in as little as fifteen iterations, with five exploratory movements in each one.
Interestingly, the system is quite resistant to "noise," or unexpected interference. Adding noise at the beginning of the learning progress spoiled things, but if it was introduced after the action was partially learned, noise actually "resulted in much more robust controllers," says the paper. That is, making things difficult for the robot to learn made it learn better.
While the robot can learn how to use its hand, right down to controlling the pneumatic actuators, from scratch each time, quickly coming to master the required task, it isn't good at adapting to new situations. It can't start the learning process without initial guidance. The team is working on that, though, with additional plans to add haptics (touch feedback) and vision to the 'bot. This could lead to the robot being able to figure out a new situation for itself, for instance, working out how to manipulate a completely unknown objectprobably one we wish it wasn't learning to manipulate.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Even While Sucking Down Fumes, Biking To Work Is Healthier Than Driving
description: Biking is obviously better for you than driving, because while biking you are exercising and while driving you are sitting. But wait! cry the pro-driving advocates. When you bike, you're inhaling (quite deeply, because of the exercise) air that is full of the polluting exhaust of the cars around you. Might that negate the health benefits that moving on the bike affords?
Mostly no. Even though you breathe heavier and inhale more pollution when riding a bike in the city, it's still, on balance, better for you to ride than to drive. A new study from the University of Cambridge compared the health benefits of cycling and walking every day, with the health impact of breathing in more dirty air. It began by asking the question: When does more exercise stop being beneficial?
The answer is that the tipping point occurs at around one and a quarter hours of cycling per day. Up until that point, the benefit from the exercise you do far outweighs the harm from polluted air. After that, the adverse effects of pollution start to rise, as you heave up hills and suck down fumes. But the adverse effects are minimal: You can keep riding for up to five hours before you totally negate the benefits from all that activity. That is, even five hours worth of fumes is better for you than sitting in a car and not doing any exercise. This chart shows the figures:
The study, led by Marko Tainio of the University of Cambridge, converted the time spent cycling or walking into "metabolically equivalent of task (MET)," a standard for measuring physical activity. Then the team used figures for particulate matter in the air of various cities based on their PM 2.5 scores. PM 2.5 is particulate matter, which remains suspended in the airdust, smoke, sootand can accumulate in the respiratory system.
By using these figures, they could make an estimate of the particulate matter inhaled while exercising. The result was that, even in heavily polluted cities, the benefits of exercise exceed the risks.
Even in heavily polluted cities, the benefits of exercise exceed the risks.
"This study indicates that, practically, air pollution risks will not negate the health benefits of active travel in urban areas in the vast majority of settings worldwide," writes Tainio.
Even if cities don't care to reduce the number of cars and other motor vehicles on their roads, they can still improve things for cyclists. Separated bike lanes, for example, lead to cyclists inhaling less filth. Cyclists can help themselves, too, by avoiding the worst streets, although, as this study from Toronto shows, it's not always the most traffic-laden routes that are the most polluted.
Tainio's study probably won't make a bit of difference for people who already commute by bikewe already know how good it feels to arrive at work with our metabolisms fully awakebut it may help convince drivers to switch to bikes, which will help everyone, while reducing pollution, one under-occupied car at a time.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Levi's Made The First Ever 100%-Recycled Cotton Jeans
description: This newest pair of Levi's started as five old T-shirts. Using a new fabric-recycling technology, Seattle-based startup Evrnu worked with Levi's to dissolve the used clothing into a new, high-quality thread. That thread was then used to make the new pants. It's a process that could ultimately start to replace water-intensive cotton grown in the field with cotton saved from discarded clothes.
In the past, recycling clothing has usually involved just "downcycling" it into something of lower value. Jeans, for example, might end up as insulation in a building. But it hasn't really been possible to turn old cotton into something good enough to make a brand-new garment out of.
One challenge is that clothes are usually made from multiple materials. Interfacings, thread, zipper tapes, and even pockets might be made out of a synthetic fabric. If someone tries to recycle a pair of jeans using conventional methods, the brown thread won't be bleachable or dyeable, and will show up as a "pollutant" in the final product.
Traditional fabric recycling also makes the thread much weaker. "It really just is shredding the fabric," says Paul Dillinger, head of global product innovation at Levi Strauss & Co. "It doesn't delicately unweave that which was woven, it really just chews it up." Because the thread is so weak, only a small percentage of conventionally recycled cotton can be used in garments, and it has to be mixed in with new fibers.
The new process solves both problems. The technology fully dissolves and separates various materials so they can be turned into something newand even stronger than it originally was.
"By changing the idea from just shredding up the garments to actually kind of melting them, dissolving them down to their molecular structure of cellulose, and reconstituting the fiber, it eliminates the pollutants," says Dillinger. "We're re-extruding it as a continuous filament fiber, so it doesn't have reduced strengthit actually has improved strength quality."
These prototype jeans don't look or feel exactly as they will if they go on sale. Levi's goal is to make recycled jeans that look and feel no different than the jeans they make now. "Our goal is to create a consumer experience that is wholly consistent with the jean you already know," he says. The company partnered with Evrnu early in the process, to help the startup develop technology to be able to deliver the specs that Levi's will eventually need as a customer.
Making cotton this way uses an estimated 98% less water than growing virgin cotton on farms, and also dramatically reduces the carbon footprint. The chemicals used to dissolve old clothing are fully reused in a closed loop, so the new process doesn't create pollution.
As agriculture around the world faces more challenges, from drought to climate change, Levi's sees the new recycled cotton as something that can slowly begin to replace virgin cotton.
"My hope is that we foster this new technology and get it to the place that it is prepared to scale up as the cotton industry needs to scale down," Dillinger says. "As the necessary and likely conversion from cotton cultivation to food crop cultivation happens, we'll have this new technology that we'll be able to start filling in those gaps."
It wouldn't happen immediately; Levi's also wants to give farmers time to adapt, so they don't suddenly lose their livelihoods. "What we're looking to have is a technology that can give us that flexibility, sort of future-proofing the supply chain and mitigating some risk, and doing it in a way that is restorative to the environment," he says.
Of course, making clothing this way also solves another problem: The world now throws out more clothing than ever before. In the U.S. alone, at least 11 million tons of textile waste ends up in landfills every year.
All Images: courtesy Evrnu
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Ocean Acidification Making It Harder For Fish to Breathe
description: As dawn breaks over an estuary meandering past the forests and homes of Marylands unincorporated Beverly Beach, silver baitfish surface to gulp at oxygen-rich waters. New research shows how climate change is making the seemingly-peaceful ritual, which plays out in shallow waters the world over, more desperate and deadly.
With carbon dioxide pollution dissolving into water bodies, causing them to acidify, laboratory experiments showed silversides in the sprawling Chesapeake Bay will find it harder to breathe in low-oxygen conditions. The findings have sweeping global implications.The new study examined Chesapeake Bay baitfish that provide food for commercial and recreational fisheries.
Credit:The Bywaters/flickr
These fish are superabundant
everything else eats them, said Seth Miller, an ecologist at the Smithsonian Environmental Research Institute who led the research, published Tuesday in the journal Marine Ecology Progress Series. What happens to them really affects what happens to the rest of the food web.
Silversides captured near Beverly Beach in Anne Arundel County and elsewhere in Chesapeake Bay died in Millers research tanks in low-oxygen conditions as pH declined, even before oxygen concentrations reached low levels that would normally kill them.
{related}
As the tank waters in Millers experiments became more acidic, the silversides also surfaced more quickly to gulp at oxygen-rich surface waters. In the wild, that would make the small fish easier prey for birds and other fish.
As carbon dioxide dissolves into oceans and makes them more acidic, less oxygen is dissolving into warming waters. The research showed that these two chemical consequences of climate change could conspire to affect the surface-breathing behavior of some fish. Its the combination of lowering the pH and the dissolved oxygen, Miller said.
Much of Chesapeake Bay is naturally plagued by low oxygen levels, particularly at night, when seaweed stops producing oxygen but animals keep breathing it. Changes in pH and oxygen levels occur seasonally and daily, but the effects are being worsened by greenhouse gas pollution from fuel burning, farming and deforestation.
This is a natural process thats happening, but we're looking at it with an eye to climate change, Miller said.
Experts said the findings validate similar conclusions reached by other scientists.Collecting baitfish from Chesapeake Bay for recent experiments.
Credit:Rebecca Burrell/Smithsonian Environmental Research Center
Other studies have shown qualitatively similar effects, said University of Washington oceanographer Curtis Deutsch, who wasnt involved with the research. As seawater becomes more acidic, metabolic rates rise.
Lisa Levin, a Scripps Institution of Oceanography professor who wasnt involved with the study, described the experiments as elegant. She said they pointed to how the dual climate change stresses of ocean acidification and deoxygenation are working together to reduce fish habitat. (Rising water temperatures caused by climate change also pose dangers.)
If you just study one stressor alone, you might not get the whole picture, Levin said. When both stressors are acting together the results can be much more negative.
The findings could be relevant for wildlife living in other estuaries, and also for those occupying open oceans. Problems are expected to beparticularly severe in waters off the West Coast and in some other regions, where oxygen levels fall to dangerous levels that scientists call hypoxic.
The same types of interactions could be going on in naturally hypoxic areas in the open ocean, Levin said.
That suggests rising levels of climate pollution pose more profound threats to the ecological cogs that fill dinner plates with fish than previously understood, and that solutions like new marine parks will be even more important.
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Woman Is Calling Out Celebrity Culture in the Most Hilarious Way
description: There are many things we like to do after working out: snag a post-workout snack, take a well-earned nap, and, yes, occasionally snap a gym selfie. Somehow the celebs we follow on Instagram always post perfectly lit, sweat stain-free selfieswhereas we are dripping sweat in a room with oh-so flattering florescent lighting.
Thats why we love comedienne Celeste Barber's Instagram account, where she mimics celeb gym selfies to highlight how silly we would look trying the same thing, while also pointing out the ridiculousness of the photos in the first place. Here are our favorites, and if you can't get enough, check out her account to see all of her parody photos:
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: EPA Moves to Regulate Oil and Gas Methane Emissions
description: The Obama administration announced new rules on Thursday aimed at cutting methane emissions from new oil and gas wells and fracking operations.
The rules also will require energy companies to provide pollution information to the Environmental Protection Agency so it can regulate methane emissions from existing oil and gas wells.
Oil wells in California.
Credit: Dave Miller/flickr
Methane warms the climate 86 times as much as carbon dioxide over a period of 20 years before breaking down in the atmosphere. Methane leaking from oil and gas industry equipment significantly increases the carbon footprint of natural gas, which emits roughly half the carbon dioxide as coal when used to generate electricity.
The new rules are part of the Obama administrations goal to cut methane emissions from the oil and gas industry by up to 45 percent by 2025. They affect newly-drilled hydraulically fractured oil wells, which studies show are significant sources of leaking methane. At least one-third of human-caused methane emissions in the U.S. come from the oil and gas industry.
{related}
The regulations require companies to find and contain leaks with the goal of reducing methane pollution by the equivalent of 11 million metric tons of carbon dioxide by 2025, or roughly the same as the emissions from 2.34 million passenger cars.
The EPA is beginning work on regulating methane leaks from existing oil and gas wells by requiring energy companies to provide data to the agency under an information collection request. The request will require the companies to inform the EPA about their emissions and technology they could use to stop methane leaks.
The first step is to gather information, EPA administrator Gina McCarthy said. Were beefing up the requirements to use some new technology to make sure were keeping an eye on leaks.
The EPA is expected to finalize the information request later this year and complete its gathering of data from the industry by early next year.
The American Petroleum Institute, an oil and gas industry trade group, criticized the administrations actions. An API statement said that the rules threaten the future of the shale gas industry, which, prior to the downturn in oil and gas prices, boomed over the last decade with advancements in hydraulic fracturing technology.
Oil well sites in Texas.
Credit: Luis Jou Garcia/flickr
Fracking allowed companies to flood the market with crude oil and natural gas that were previously unreachable.
It doesnt make sense that the administration would add unreasonable and overly burdensome regulations when the industry is already leading the way in reducing emissions, API Vice President Kyle Isakower said. Imposing a one-size-fits-all scheme on the industry could actually stifle innovation and discourage investments in new technologies that could serve to further reduce emissions.
Groups urging the Obama administration to cut greenhouse gas emissions to tackle climate change said they strongly support the new methane regulations.
Sam Adams, director of the World Resources Institutes U.S. Climate Initiative, said the rules encourage industry to install low-cost safeguards to keep methane leaks in check.
Every ton of methane that escapes from our pipes and drilling wells plays an outsized role in warming our planet, Adams said in a statement.
Carol Werner, executive director of the Environmental and Energy Study Institute, said in a statement that controlling methane leaks is important as more gas is used in electric power plants to replace coal
the globes largest single source of carbon emissions driving climate change.
The next urgent step needs to be limiting methane emissions from existing sources in the fossil fuel industries, Werner said. The administration is working on such rules and we encourage their release as soon as possible.
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: When Complimenting Someone on Losing Weight Is a Bad Idea
description: You might think that complimenting someone on losing weight is as harmless as commenting on their cute new do, but that's not always the case. This video from BuzzFeed explains that you never know what's behind weight lossit might be completely unintentional, or due to unhealthy habits or a painful experience like a breakup. Even if you mean well, praising someone for losing weight could have a negative effect. You're often better off telling someone you like their outfit or simply their smile.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: How Fairphone--The World's Most Ethical Cell Phone--Stays Good
description: On the fifth floor of a nondescript Amsterdam building lies Fairphone. It is the world's first socially responsible and sustainable company to design, manufacture and sell mobile phones. Like most companies, Fairphone aims to make a profit. But less common is that the company refuses to do so at the expense of its purpose. As its name suggests, Fairphone operates on the principle that a philosophy of fairness can inform its production and sales. Fairness, balance and accountability to all stakeholdersincluding its employeessits at the center of the organization's purpose.
Adapted from The Purpose Effect: Building Meaning in Yourself, Your Role, and Your Organization by Dan Pontefract published on May 10, 2016.
When I walked into Fairphone headquarters, employees were busy coding, engaging one another in conversation, talking on their phones and making tea in its open-plan office. The scene reminded me of many other high-tech start-up firms I have visited in the past. It reminded me of places I have worked at, too. Whiteboards were chock-full of ideas and various scribbles. The hum of activity was palpable. There were huddles of people working together. Plates of pastries were scattered across the kitchen bar. However, people were not working at Fairphone for the free food or for the discounted bus pass.
Bas van Abel is the Founder and CEO of Fairphone. He is an individual who clearly wants to change the world. In particular, van Abel sees the world needing to evolve from what he calls its "pernicious and unsustainable ways." His perspective is both reactive and inclusive: "We are part of everything. None of us at Fairphone feels as though the financial system is connected to who we are, and as a result, we all need to collaboratively think differently and act differently, too." The "we" he refers to is not only Fairphone and its employees, but society itself.
Van Abel has built a business based on one simple point: We are all part of the ecosystem. At Fairphone, society is part of the ecosystem. The core of the organization's purpose is to build a product that delivers value to all stakeholders that make up the entire ecosystem. As van Abel claims, "Fairphone goes beyond being a company." He believes Fairphoneand all organizations, for that matteris an important part of the change needed in today's model of economics.
Fairphone's purpose is to manufacture mobile phones that are ethical. The phones are made from conflict-free minerals assembled by firms who also ensure fair wages for the factory workers. The 40 employees who work directly at Fairphone in Amsterdam think of themselves as caretakers of the Earth. They make a mobile phone but do so ensuring they keep the greater good of society in mind.
Operating as an independent social enterprise since 2013, Fairphone seeks to achieve a balance between its organizational purpose and the need for profit. Like any private company, Fairphone requires increased revenues and positive profit margins in order not only to grow the business but simply to stay in business. Everyone involved in Fairphone subscribes to the overarching purpose, nevertheless all have bills to pay, too. The company is unwilling, though, to allow for imbalance: Organizational purpose cannot be sacrificed in favor of the quest for profit.
Van Abel believes the company will grow but not at the expense of its organizational purpose to serve the ecosystem. He chose to start a business in the commercial spaceand the mobile phone industry specificallymostly because he is someone who loves to learn. In fact, loving to learn is part of van Abel's personal definition of purpose. We all have personal priorities and goals. Van Abel places a tremendous amount of value in learning, so much so that he considers it one of his personal priorities. Think of it as one of his core operating principles. If van Abel is not learning, he is not fulfilled and therefore he is not meeting his own personal sense of purpose.
Starting Fairphone helped satisfy van Abel's personal need to learn and it cemented his quest to create a more sustainable mobile phone. For example, he teamed up with the United Nations in the Congo to learn how the company might source materials and minerals for the phone more ethically. This partnership has allowed him to learn, and to continue fueling Fairphone's purpose. When he began working with local leaders in the Congo, he used this connection as a way to acquire new knowledge about the local working conditionsas well as how materials were being sourced by suppliers of the iPhone and Android devicesin order to improve Fairphone's procurement and production processes.
Van Abel's experiences with Fairphone have given him further insight into the value of purpose and the efficacy of new practices. "The only way a 'purpose- with-profit' model will work is if everyone believes it. How can you create a new economic model of thinking to achieve a profit with purpose? All the time at Fairphone we're trying to show that purpose can balance with profit. Mistakes are made at Fairphone, but we don't think binary. It's not people; rather it's the systems of stock exchanges and financial models that are the problem. It's the long-term view that we take. The better question is how can one challenge the status quo, and that's what Fairphone keeps doing."
He concludes our discussion with an expansive observation: "The purpose of Fairphone goes beyond being a company. All of us at Fairphone are looking at the world in a different way. We can only do that as being a part of a bigger thing. We are part of that change toward a greater purpose, and I'm so proud."
After departing, it dawned on me that van Abel's personal sense of purpose was being fulfilled at least partially through Fairphone. The personal values, attributes, interests and priorities that are important to van Abel are being met through Fairphone's organizational purpose and the role he serves at the company. He wants to learn and change the world, and he gets to do that at Fairphone. Furthermore, van Abel has developed a culture and hired people at Fairphone that supports the intersection of three different types of purpose: personal, organizational and role.
He believes an organization's purpose is to serve society and that includes its employees. Fairphone has dedicated its mission to carry this out in the form of making a more ethical mobile phone. Not only is van Abel personally engaged and seemingly delighted to work in a role that permits him the opportunity to operate with a purpose mindset, but he also is an individual who is passionate, innovative and committed to a meaningful and engaging workplace that serves all stakeholders.
Could it be that van Abel, Fairphone and its employees are exhibiting the three key principles of what I call The Purpose Effect?
The Purpose Effect is a three-way relationship between an individual's personal sense of purpose in life, the organization's purpose and a person's purpose in their role at work. When all three aspects of purpose are properly defined, are well aligned and function in partnership with one another, then the employee, the organization and society mutually benefit.
In the case of Fairphone, the answer is a resounding yes.
Dan Pontefract is Chief Envisioner at Telus Transformation Office, where he helps organizations enhance their work culture and collaboration practices.
All Photos: courtesy Fairphone
This article was written by Dan Pontefract from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Climate Change Has Officially Engulfed 5 Pacific Islands
description: Five Pacific islands have just disappeared, thanks to rising oceans. The islands areor werea part of the Solomon Islands, located around 1,000 miles off Australia, and were uninhabited by humans. However, the same rising sea levels have washed away huge chunks of other inhabited islands, forcing the residents to move and destroying an established village.
The study is the first scientific evidence that climate change and sea-level rise are sweeping away the low-lying islands of the Pacific, confirming numerous anecdotal accounts. The evidence comes from studying aerial and satellite imagery from 1947 to 2014. This was combined with local knowledge to identify any missing islands. The researchers have found that five vegetated islandsnot just hunks of rockhave have been completely eroded and submerged, and six more have experienced severe shoreline erosion.
"Shoreline recession at two sites has destroyed villages that have existed since at least 1935, leading to community relocations. Rates of shoreline recession are substantially higher in areas exposed to high wave energy, indicating a synergistic interaction between sea-level rise and waves," says the report, published in Environmental Research Letters, says.
The islands that gradually sank over the years ranged in size from three to 12 acres. Four of them were gone by 2002, with the final and largest island, named Kale, succumbing in 2014. Of the inhabited islands, the least-affected has lost 20% of its area, and the worst-affected, 62% of its area.
The changes can creep up, but disaster can also occur suddenly. Nuatambu, which has lost half of itself to the sea since 1947 then experienced severe coastal loss between 2011 and 2014, resulting in ten houses destroyed.
The sea-level rise in the area, which is a global "hotspot," according to the authors, averaged 3 millimeters per year since 1950, rising to 7-10mm per year since 1994. That's bad enough, but the real problems come from the interactions between the rising levels, tidal patterns, and wind. Scientists might be able to make a stab at predicting sea-level changes, but not their complex interactions with changing weather systems. And those are the kinds of changes that can lead to such sudden disappearances of land, not just in the remote islands of Pacific archipelagoes, but on the coasts of the continents themselves.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Walgreens Wants to Help People Get Screened for Mental Illness
description: Walgreens wants to help a lot of people get screened for mental health issues3 million by 2017, to be exact. In conjunction with Mental Health Month, the pharmacy giant has partnered with Mental Health America to provide the screenings and MDLIVE to connect people with a therapist. While the screenings are free, the therapy consultations start at $60. Everything can be accessed through an online portal.
There's no denying Walgreens could profit from the screenings if prescriptions increase. But it's a win-win: A huge brand is working to destigmatize mental health issues and provide an easily accessible service for those in needthat's something we can get behind.
(h/t TechCrunch)
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Domestic Violence Doesn't Always Look Like It Does in the Movies. I Would Know
description: Domestic violence comes in many forms. It doesn't always look like a movie starring Julia Roberts or Jennifer Lopez.
The author, in Texas Hill Country When I left my ex-husband at age 27, the first question people asked was What happened? Next came even less helpful comments and questions, such as But you seemed so happy, and Did you try counseling?I didnt know how to respond. It wasnt easy to tell them that the life I had hoped and planned for was falling apart in front of me. I was going against many of the values I was raised on growing up in Texas: I was walking away from a vow I had made, one that was expected to last until death do us part. The problem was we had already parted. Years of abuse had driven us further and further away from each other, until the marriage was irreparable.
The Many Manifestations of Abuse
For six years, I had been abused without being able to admit to it. I never had a black eye or a busted lip or an emergency room visit. I made excuses for him: I guess I pushed his buttons or He wouldn't be like this if I were a better wife.
What I did experience was criticism veiled in playfulness. Hed make comments like When are you going back to the gym? and Remember what you looked like on our honeymoon? He could go into a rage over a sarcastic comment muttered under my breath and would scream in my ears until spit was landing on my skin, only to say later that he would black out during those times and had no recollection of his actions.
One night, I dared to disagree with him over a political issue, and he kept me up until 3 a.m. until he was convinced he had shown me the error of my ways. I begged him to let me go to sleep, but he kept the light on and would not stop arguing with me about how wrong I was. Control also masquerades as religious conservatism.Now in a happier place.I had been a virgin when I met him, but he occasionally flew into jealous rages if I was too friendly with someone he considered attractive. He pressured me for sex and commented on my lack of sex drive on more than one occasion. It was worse when alcohol was involved.
Double standards are another form of control. He despised Sex and the City because of the language, so I wasn't allowed to watch it; he watched whatever TV shows and movies he wanted. The same went for music. One day I borrowed his iPod and listened to one of his workout playlists, my jaw dropping when I heard the expletives in the songs. When I confronted him about it, he told me he didn't hear the words, just the beat. When we were first married, I got in trouble for telling him to shut up. Several years later, he was hurling insults like go to hell or go f*ck yourself.
When I told someone he had been physically abusive, she responded, But he didn't, like, beat you, did he?
Eventually, things became physical, and he pushed me into the dining room wall until the chair rail slammed into my spine and my back hurt for two days. He grabbed my arm and left bruises, noticed only by my most observant friends. Still, when I told someone he had been physically abusive, she responded, But he didn't, like, beat you, did he?
Reaching My Breaking Point
Part of my grad program in mental health counseling was to practice clinical skills on fellow students. My friend needed some hours of practice, so I agreed to play the role of a client for her. She told me to make up a scenario, so I didabout a woman who was deeply unhappy in a controlling marriage.
At one point, she stopped and was no longer the counselor. She was my friend, and she was concerned. She put her hand on my arm, looked me in the eyes and said, Youre a little too good at acting this out. Are you OK? Several hours and many tears later, I knew what I had to do.
Because I was so mentally damaged, I left quietly, telling few people and leaving out many of the details. I felt horribly ashamed and somehow responsible for my failed marriage. I protected him while he dragged my name through the mud. He stalked me, showing up at my new apartment, my work, and the bar where I was hanging out with friends. Sometimes he would hurl insults at me; sometimes he would beg me to come back.
More Than the Numbers
Many of the statistics online only take into account severe physical abuse or violence, while abuse that is considered less severe (like my own) goes unreported or unmeasured. I have written on this subject before, only to have a reader leave a comment that I hadn't experienced domestic violence, only domestic abuse.
All types of domestic abuse countthe wounds you can see and the wounds you can'tand we have to validate and assist victims.
The reason I'm writing this is to raise awareness that all types of domestic abuse countthe wounds you can see and the wounds you can'tand we have to validate and assist victims, not get caught up in verbiage.
As a mental health counselor, I work daily with victims of abuse and assault who have not ever reported the crimes committed against them. Stats reveal nearly half of all women and men in the U.S. have experienced psychological aggression by an intimate partner in their lifetime. Every nine seconds a woman is assaulted or beaten. And reports show domestic victimization is correlated with a higher rate of depression and suicidal behavior.
If you're in an abusive situation or relationship, please seek help. If the people in your life do not believe you or are minimizing your abuse, know that this does not mean your report is invalid. Get to a safe place and visit The National Domestic Violence Hotline's website or call an advocate at 18007997233. Talk to a trusted friend, family member, or mental health provider.
No matter what you feel you have done, no one deserves to be abused in any way. Do not let your abuser silence your story.
This article was written by Lauren Hasha from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Why Google Is Banning Ads From Predatory Lenders
description: Though Google is the search engine for everything, when it comes to advertising, it draws the line at certain products. You won't find ads on there for guns, tobacco, explosives, and recreational drugs. And, from July 13, you won't find them for payday loans either. Google now won't take money to advertise the quick-credit industry, responding to advocates who say it preys on personal weakness and lands people with unreasonable levels of debt.
Google will no longer accept ads with a repayment schedule shorter than 60 days, or where loans have an annual interest rate (APR) of 36% or higher. "Research has shown that these loans can result in unaffordable payment and high default rates for users," says David Graff, Google's director of global product policy, in a blog post.
To be clear, users will still be able to search for any loan products they want and the loan companies will still appear in the main results. But they won't see ads to the side of the page when searching terms like "I'm having trouble paying my bills" or "I need money quick."
Flickr user Chris Potter
Importantly, the ban also applies to marketing companies that act as intermediaries between lenders and customers. Typically, when you search for "need money to pay rent," you're presented with a page from a "lead generator" that starts taking down your details. It will then sell on your information to the highest bidder for your business.
A report last year from consulting firm Upturn showed how these companies often share data "recklessly." In some cases, the data has been used to commit alleged fraud. In 2014, the Federal Trade Commission sued one payday lender for taking $25 million out of customer bank accounts without their consent.
Economic justice groups welcomed Google's decision. "Curbing the harm of payday lending is a civil rights priority," said Wade Henderson, president of the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, a coalition of 200 national groups, in a conference call. "Part of payday lenders' marketing strategy is to prey on consumers at their moment of greatest desperation and they're using the Internet as part of this aggressive pursuit."
The Upturn report argues that online lenders are "often worse for consumers than their storefront counterparts: They are associated with higher fees, longer-term indebtedness, higher rates of borrower abuse, and startling rates of fraud."
There are thought to be more payday outlets in the U.S. than McDonald's and Starbucks stores combined. Twelve million American take such loans each year, according to a 2012 report from the Pew Charitable Trusts. On average, borrowers take on eight loans of $375 each and pay a total of $520 in interest and fees.
Last year, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau proposed new rules on payday lenders. They would require companies to make a thorough assessment of ability to pay, would restrict how many loans consumers could take out in a year, and would stop lenders from garnishing bank accounts "in ways that tend to rack up excessive [bank] fees." It will (probably) release the final rules this summer.
Arguably, though, Google's ban could have more impact. Facebook already doesn't allow payday loans ads. And consumer advocates hope that Bing and Yahoo will now follow the other companies' lead.
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Software Is Helping Groups Make Collaborative Decisions, Occupy Wall Street-Style
description: The Internet is great for bringing like-minded people together, but it hasn't always been good for making actual decisions. Getting disparate people to agree on a single course of action is difficult to achieve via email, or even using a modern chatting platform like Slack. Inevitably people go off on tangents, raise petty disagreements, or feel their voice isn't being heard.
Loomio, a collaborative platform that originally grew out of the Occupy movement, aims to cut through the noise and allow people to reach a solid consensus. And it seems to be doing a pretty good job of it. Created in New Zealand, the software is now used by 20,000 groups in 95 countries, and it's beginning to reach well beyond its base among activist groups like the 15-M movement in Spain. For example, the Taiwanese government now uses it for participative democracywhich is somewhat ironic. Not long ago, Sunflower student groups were using Loomio to organize protests around Taiwan's parliament buildings.
Loomio itself is an interesting example of collaboration. It's owned by its worker-developers and has a share structure that ensures it sticks to its social mission. When it raised $450,000 recently (mostly from a social impact fund in South Korea), it created "redeemable preference shares"which are shares that must be returned to the social enterprise if they're ever sold. The structure stops investors from selling on ownership to people who don't share Loomio's values, and ensures that most of the value created remains in the organization. The agreement gives investors an annual 8% returnan amount well above inflation, but nothing like the extravagant returns a high-risk VC might expect.
"We're driven to build a self-sustaining, revenue-funded company," says co-founder Ben Knight.
Knight describes Loomio as a "pie graph, four buttons and a space to talk to one another." It lets anyone start a thread and propose a course of action, then calls on participants to "agree," "abstain," "disagree," or "raise a serious concern" within an agreed timeline. "Rather than majority rules and a polarizing vote, it's more about having a way of succinctly stating your position and being flexible to change it," he says. "There's a discussion thread so you can see how everyone feels, and then there's the ability to develop thinking together as new information comes to light."
Licenses cost $19 per month per organization, but Loomio has a gift policy for groups with no budget. The software itself is open source, allowing people to make their own tweaks and additions. So far it's been translated into 35 languages (Spanish is the most popular after English).
Knight hopes the new cash injection will allow Loomio to reach further audiences and for the co-operative to keep growing. "It's been a long journey to get to this point. But we feel like we're in a good place to grow," he says.
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: These Shoes Made Without Glue Are Healthier For Factory Workers--And Recyclable
description: In some Chinese shoe factories, winter is glue poisoning season. With the windows shut, benzene, and other toxic volatile chemicals in glue are more likely to make people sick. Even with adequate ventilation, spending too much time glueing shoes can lead to leukemia and other diseases over the long-term.
When a Dutch designer studied shoemaking in product design school, he started to wonder why shoes had to be made with glue at all. "I was surprised how much glue was involved in the process," says Roderick Pieters. "After each shoemaking day, I left class high on glue. Imagine if you work in a shoe factory every day."
He started to work on a new shoe design, one that uses a strong, thick cord to attach a soft leather upper to a custom rubber sole stamped with a series of holes. The shoe can be quickly assembled without glue, and easily disassembled when the sole wears outsomething that can't happen with other shoes, which is why most can't be recycled.
"I like it when parts are connected in a more constructive way," he says. "That they really fit. Visible, clear, transparent connections...In this way the design/aesthetics can be about the construction."
He initially designed a sandal and then was approached by a Japanese brand, Proef, to develop shoes based on the concept. It could work for any type of shoe, he says, and though some types of shoes would be more challenging to redesignlike running shoesthey could also benefit from the change.
While some other shoes are permanently stitched together, they're also hard to take apart if the sole needs to be replaced. Pieters envisions consumers quickly taking apart his shoes when they need new soles. This would be especially useful for something like a running shoe.
"It should be normal to replace your sole or upper, like replacing a tire on your bike," he says. "Lots of people already do this with classical shoesbring it to the shoemaker store to get a new solebut with sneakers and most casual shoes this is impossible."
Because the shoes are so simple to assemble, he says that consumers could eventually do it themselves, IKEA-style. Proef also hopes to set up assembly locations around the world, so the finished shoes aren't shipped as far. The simple construction, and little labor needed, means that it's also possible for the company to make the shoes in small batches, instead of the typical factory orders that usually result in waste.
By crowdfunding on Kickstarter, the company plans to get an exact sense of demand, and make only as many shoes as are needed.
They're hoping it inspires more change in the broader shoe industry. "Like with most products, as a consumer, you never see the industry behind [shoes]," Pieters says. "If you visit an average shoe factory, then it is easy to see that circumstances should be better. Most factories are unhealthy workplaces. Let's change that."
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 6 Ways We Could Spend $1 Billion To Fix America's Economic Mobility Problem
description: If you had $1 billion and you really cared about the state of social mobility in this country, where would you put your money to best use?
Despite interest among philanthropists in promoting mobility, there's actually a lack of investment going into the area.
That's the animating question of a new report from the Bridgespan Group, a consulting firm for nonprofits and philanthropists. It reviews a mass of research evidence and identifies six "big bets" that prospective donors might take on.
"A child born into the bottom 20% of the U.S. income distribution has just a one in 10 chance of making it into the top 20% of the distributionless than half the likelihood in European countries like Denmark," the report points out. And the prospects for African Americans and Hispanics are worse than that.
But, despite interest among philanthropists in promoting mobility, there's actually a lack of investment going into the area. Four-fifths of large donors want to catalyze social equality, a Bridgespan survey found, but most don't follow through. Between 2000 and 2012, they directed just 20% of donations above $10 million to "social-change organizations." A billion might sound like a lot of money, but it's not in the face of the problem. Just think, most estimates peg the cost of the Iraq War at more than $2 trillion. And these billion dollar investments all return much more than that in economic benefits.
Bridgespan says this is partly because "the root causes of poverty are interwoven and systemic, [so] donors struggle to identify the right structure and focus for sizable investments." The new report therefore lays out a roadmap of ways to effect change, and calculates which interventions might have the greatest return-on-investment (ROI). Below are the six ideas in turn:
Tech-enabled early childhood development
Inequality begins early. Research shows that kids from poorer homes tend to have fewer cognitive skills, a less developed vocabulary, and to be less developed socially and emotionally. This puts them at an immediate disadvantage compared to their peers.
Kids from poorer homes tend to have fewer cognitive skills, a less developed vocabulary, and to be less developed socially and emotionally.
The report recommends investment in "a suite of tech-enabled tools that parents, informal caregivers, daycare center providers, and instructors can use to support the healthy development of children." That includes ideas like Text4baby (a text advice program for mothers and mothers-to-be), UPSTART (a PC-based pre-school program from the Waterford Institute), and Ready4K (a text program for "kindergarten readiness" skills). Making sure kids are ready for pre-school, the report says, would return $5.5 billion to $11 billion in increased lifetime earnings.
Clear pathways to careers
The second bet concentrates on identifying the type of skills employers actually need (as opposed to the skills that traditional education tends to teach). It encourages "competency-based learning" and calls on employers "to clearly articulate (and disseminate) the skills that are necessary to succeed in a given career." By educating youth in what they need to know to get ahead, it should be possible for more to get ahead, the report reasons. It also estimates an enormous ROI on the long-term benefits: $7.3 billion to $14.7 billion.
Decrease convictions and incarcerations
The United States convicts and locks up people at five times the rate of comparable advanced nations. No country puts more people in prison, and, of course, black males are disproportionately affected. The criminalization binge stops people from developing useful skills, while a criminal record hinders people who have been released from prison from being considered for jobs.
The report wants new "laws and norms that support the appropriate treatment, intervention, and rehabilitation of individuals who have served their time." It says such laws and norms "should be consistent across race and class, and they should be based on the specific behaviors and supports that help former inmates become productive members of society."
Lifetime earnings dividend: between $4.3 billion and $8.6 billion.
Cut unintended pregnancies
The fourth bet aims "to shift market behaviors among health care providers and policymakers to support greater access and uptake of effective contraceptive options." The aim: to reduce the roughly 1.6 million unplanned babies born every year. The report says long-acting reversible contraception is proven to reduce unwanted pregnancies among teens and young adults and that more counseling and education could spread its use (even if pro-life advocates are bound to object).
Potential lifetime earnings boost: $3.2 billion to $6.4 billion.
Reduce concentrated poverty
America is full of distressed communities where poor housing, schooling and health care compound the effects of poverty. This bet would build on the insight that children born to low-income parents fare better when they live in more "economically diverse" neighborhoods (places where richer and poorer people live side by side).
The intervention would try to prove the economic benefits of greater integration "by building the infrastructure and services that support far greater access to economic opportunity in five regional areas." The total ROI in lifetime earnings could be $4.5 billion to $8.5 billion, the report says.
Improve the performance of social services
Finally, Bridgespan calls for a new evidence-based transparency ethos around existing public services. Too often, it says, government funds "ineffective, cost-prohibitive [programs]" with only "modestly effective outcomes for low-income and marginalized populations." The specific program would fund the continuous improvement of services in 15 U.S. localities based on the rigorous capture and application of data. Then a "learning platform" would be spread more widely. The report says such an approach could yield $3 to $6 billion (though it's only an "illustrative" estimate rather than a definite one).
Read more from the report here.
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The Urban Confessional Project Sends Volunteers To Do Nothing But Listen To Your Problems
description: Twice a week, small groups of people head out to the streets of Los Angeles, hold up "Free Listening" signs, and then listen to anyone who wants to talk. The Urban Confessional project, which now happens in more than a dozen other cities around the world, is based on a simple premise: People need to be heard, but it's something that doesn't often happen in a meaningful way in everyday life.
"It's easy to do," says Urban Confessional founder Benjamin Mathes. "In a way we're challenging some institutionsyou don't have to be a priest, you don't have to be a counselor to be with somebody. You don't have to be anything but who you are. In doing that, I think we've taken away a lot of the barriers to human connection."
Mathes, a Los Angeles-based actor, started the project in 2012, as he was going through a divorce and looking for a way to start recovering by volunteering. As he was crossing the street one day, a homeless person asked for money; Mathes didn't have any. He ended up talking and praying with the homeless man insteadand realized that he wanted to keep doing the same thing. He convinced friends to join him on the street, offering to listen.
"People almost always respond the same way," he says. "They'll say, why are you doing this? They're totally surprised that somebody would offer to be there for them. My response is always the same: I just say, I'm doing it for you. They're like, what's the catch? I say, there's no catch."
As they listen, volunteers simply pay close attention to whatever the stranger in front of them is saying and offer some empathetic responses. They don't give advice. They don't record the conversations.
Mathes once met a young teenage girl who explained that she was celebrating 75 days of not cutting herself. Another man was on his way to jail to turn himself in. On a recent week, a man spent an hour and a half talking about his problems with his son, and crying.
"It's really changed the way I see the world," Mathes says. People are walking around with a whole lot of crap on their shoulders, and they don't always express that. We don't always know what journey everybody's going through."
Even when he's not holding up a sign, Mathes says he's now more likely to have meaningful connections with strangersand forget his own problems temporarily. "If you start doing this, it's like you're practicing openness," he says. "I can be in Starbucks and somebody will start talking to me. And we'll be at Starbucks for an hour."
Since the project started in L.A. four years ago, it has spread to Barcelona; Lima, Peru; Sydney; Tokyo; New York; and multiple other cities. Anyone who wants to volunteer can download a basic kit of instructions.
"I really do believe we're in the noisiest time in human history, and we're desperate for someone to get out there and encourage connection in a deep way," Mathes says. "I think this is something that is healthy to inject into the circulatory system of culture, so it spreads."
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Sorry, Trump: Ending Borders Could Jump-Start The World Economy
description: Forget, for a moment, about Donald Trump and his calls for a Mexico border wall and a ban on Muslims coming to this country. Imagine, instead, the opposite: We welcome any and all immigrants who want to come here, with no restrictions on visas and passports. Imagine, too, that all other nations do the same, that everyone can move wherever they like. There are no borders. Anyone can move, live, and work wherever they want.
Practically and politically, it's a crazy idea, of course. But, according to several respectable economists, it's also an idea with tremendous economic merit. Opening all national borders, they estimate, could boost global wealth by between 67% and 172%.
Flickr user el-toro
"Research on this question has been distinguished by its rarity and obscurity, but the few estimates we have should make economists' jaws hit their desks," writes development economist Michael Clemens, of the Center for Global Development, reviewing the research. "When it comes to policies that restrict emigration, there appear to be trillion-dollar bills on the sidewalk."
Allowing the free movement of people would, in a sense, complete the job of globalization, which saw the liberalization of trade and capital. But the benefits could be much greater. The International Monetary Fund says doing away with remaining cross-border capital controlswhere countries, like China, won't allow money to leave their borderswould see gains of $65 billion. Harvard economist Lant Pritchett says doing the same for workers would boost global GDP by a staggering $65 trillion.
Flickr user Casey Renner
Why the big numbers? It comes down to the efficiency of the market. National borders, while maintaining sovereignty and identity, are a distortion of commercial activity. Millions of people want to move from poorer countries to richer ones, but we don't let them. At the same time, the lack of cheap labor those immigrants could provide dampens the growth of rich countries. The most productive market is where everyone does what they're capable of doing. When a PhD chemist does gardening work rather than hiring an immigrant to do it, it prevents her from doing PhD-order things, and it prevents immigrants from earning wages higher than they could get at home, where there aren't PhD chemists with the money to hire them to garden.
"Borders are the single biggest cause of discrimination in all of world history," says the Dutch journalist Rutger Bregman in his new book, Utopia for Realists (which we also covered here). And you can see his point. We complain about inequality among Americans, but inequality between people of different countries is far greater, and national borders can stop people from earning what they're worth.
"In developed countries, employees are expected to be flexible," Bregman writes. "If you want a job, you have to follow the money. But when ultra-flexible labor heads our way from the world's developing countries, we suddenly see them as economic freeloaders. Those seeking asylum are only allowed to stay if they have reason to fear persecution at home based on their religion or birth."
We don't know how many people would want to move if borders were open, which explains the range of economic estimates. Not everyone is flexible and ambitious; some people would probably choose the familiarity of home over going abroad. Nor do we know how opening borders would affect different income groups, though Nathan Smith, an independent researcher and blogger at the site Open Borders, thinks most of us would benefit. "Very few Americans think that open borders would be in their economic interests. But, for most of them, I think it would," he says. "That is, assuming our institutions hold together. That's the big unknown."
Flickr user Tony Webster
Smith says opening borders would see a burst of entrepreneurial activity because immigrants could take advantage of low interest rates and a better business environment than at home. If, for example, immigrants borrow money in the U.S. at 3%, they will gain more proportionally when they make 10% business profit than if that business was in a higher rate country where they have to pay more money back. That boosts GDP because more money is circulating in the economy.
More immigration would probably raise land prices (favoring people who own land). But it would also probably impoverish the current residents who didn't own real estate (as rents would go up) and increase labor competition among those with few skills, both immigrant and current resident. In effect, we would be doing a huge favor to people of other countries at the expense of our own people, even if the overall economic benefits would outweigh the negatives. Smith suggests taxing immigrants as a way of compensating for the losses of people living here (though that would obviously dull the incentive of coming here).
Opening all our borders is certainly impracticaleven more so because, for these benefits to actually accrue, every country would have to do it at once (when, in 2008, Ecuador unilaterally started "a campaign to dismantle that 20th-century invention of passports and visas," it saw more immigrants than it could handle and soon reinstated visa requirements). You only have to look at Europe's current immigration crisis to see what happens when thousands of people try to enter rich countries by any means necessary.
But that's not to say that a little more immigration would be a bad idea. If the developed world expanded its labor force by as little as 1%, it would do more for the world's poor than all foreign aid, debt relief, and trade liberalization rounds combined, according to one estimate.
Trump may want to build more walls, but generally tearing them down is better for most of us.
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 7 Overnight Oats Recipes That Make Breakfast a Breeze
description: Its a quintessential breakfast item (that packs a serious nutritional punch), but oatmeal often gets unfairly typecast as bland. Plus, when getting dressed and out the door in the morning is a feat in itself, who has the time to babysit a pot on the stove?
Enter overnight oats. Stirred up in advance (no cooking necessary!) and left to soak while you catch some extra zzzs, chilled oatmeal is a much quicker way to get in a healthy breakfast. Plus its more portable, and the variations are endless. Check out these seven make-ahead recipes youll be excited to wake up to.Photo: Fit Foodie Finds1. Blueberry Muffin Overnight Oats
Get your blueberry muffin fix without needing to use an oven or multiple mixing bowls. Thanks to the chia seeds and Greek yogurt stirred in, youre getting 13 grams of proteincant say that about your standard store-bought kind!Photo: The Blissful Balance2. Vegan Carrot Cake Overnight Oats
Nondairy milk, gluten-free oats and just a touch of maple syrup make this low-sugar recipe suitable for any hungry breakfast eater. With raisins, walnuts, and shredded carrots in each bite, it really is like digging into a big ol slice of cake.Photo: My Fussy Eater3. Strawberry Shortcake Overnight Oats
Six ingredients. No-bake. Packed with fiber. Brimming with berries. This oaty spin on a classic treat could very well be the best way to have your cake and eat it too.Photo: Deliciously Ella4. Creamy Mango and Banana Overnight Oats
Check out that bright color! No artificial flavorings here: The credit for all that cheery yellow goes entirely to the mango and banana puree layered with the oats.Photo: As Easy As Apple Pie5. Apple Pie Overnight Oats
Lightly spiced and filled with both fresh apple chunks and applesauce, this breakfast is as delicious as a slice of the pie its named after. In fact, thanks to using heart-healthy and whole grain oats instead of a refined-flour crust, its even more satisfying than its namesake.Photo: Frugality Gal6. Peanut Butter Overnight Oats
Dont worry if you dont have peanut powder on handpeanut butter (or any nut butter, really) works just as well to help thicken up the oats here. While chia seeds add even more texture and healthy fat, chocolate chips make sure it still feels like youre eating dessert.Photo: The Blissful Balance7. Simple Vanilla Protein Overnight Oats
Vanilla protein powder not only makes this chilled bowl taste like ice cream, its also a great way to add some extra oomph to your breakfast to keep you energized through the morning.
This article was written by Anisha Jhaveri from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Is How Many Friends You Can Actually Have
description: It's easier than ever to be connected to hundreds, even thousands, of people. Though the average person has around 300 Facebook "friends," the number of friends we actually have IRL is a lot smaller. This video by AsapTHOUGHT explains that even in the age of social media, our brains can only handle around 150 casual acquaintances (people you'd invite to a party), 50 close pals (the friends you see often but aren't super close to), and 5 best buds (the ones you can really count on).
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Meghan Trainor Pulls Music Video Because Her Waist Was Retouched
description: Chart-topping pop singer Meghan Trainor pulled the music video for her new single Me Too on Monday, after discovering her waist had been digitally altered in one of the scenes. Here's the side-by-side comparison she posted on Instagram:
We know, we know: another week, another celeb Photoshopping controversy. But Trainor was able to take matters into her own hands. She quickly took down the video from YouTube and Vevo, and then rightfully demanded that the editors release the version where her waist wasn't severely cinched. (You can check out that below.)
We love that Trainor, who rose to fame with the body-positive anthem All About That Bass, sent a strong message to the music industry (and all her fans): "Look at how bomb I look," she told USA Today while watching the unedited video. Why would they ever be like, Lets break her ribs! Its insulting, its rude."
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Watching This Break-Dancer Do Push-Ups Is Insane
description: Think you know what a push-up looks like? Think again. Las Vegas break-dancer Simon Ata recently posted an Instagram video of his take on the classic exercise, in which he uses his incredible arm and core strength to float his body above the groundno feet necessary.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Hilarious Video Parodies How Yogis Get the Perfect Instagram
description: As much as we love scrolling through our favorite yogis' Instagrams and gawking at their phenomenal shots, we've always wondered how zen (and comfortable) it is doing tree pose on a jagged rock or a headstand on a paddleboard. This hilarious video from JP Sears (think Derek Zoolander with a man bun) cleverly points out the ridiculousness of some of these photos.
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Global 2040 Forecast Sees Only Slight Fall in Fossil Fuels
description: Despite the urgency to cut greenhouse gas emissions as climate change bears down on the globe, fossil fuel use is not likely to change much in the coming decades. Though renewable energy will grow quickly though 2040, gasoline and diesel will still move most of the worlds vehicles, and coal will still be the largest single source of carbon emissions.
Those are the conclusions of a forecast released by the federal government on Wednesday for how the world will use energy and what its carbon dioxide emissions will be over the next 25 years.
Gasoline and diesel will likely remain the globe's biggest transportation fuels in the coming decades.
Credit: Michael Kappel/flickr
Here are five things to know about the U.S. Energy Information Administrations World Energy Outlook 2016 and what it might mean for the climate:
Carbon Emissions Will Continue Ballooning
Credit: EIA
Global carbon emissions from energy consumption are expected to grow at an average rate of 1 percent per year between 2012 and 2040, growing a total 34 percent in that time as fossil fuels provide the world with more than three quarters of its energy.
With existing policies and regulations, worldwide energy-related carbon dioxide emissions will go from about 32 billion metric tons in 2012 to something like 43 billion metric tons out to the year 2040, EIA administrator Adam Sieminski said.
{related}
Developed countries are expected see their carbon emissions increase about 9 percent through 2040, but in the developing world, those emissions will spike 51 percent.
Thats because developing countries, particularly China and India, are likely to continue to rely mainly on fossil fuels for their energy. Those countries alone account for 59 percent of the growth in global carbon emissions.
Coal Will Still Be King of Carbon in 2040
Credit:EIA
Unless there are unexpected changes in global climate policy over the next 25 years, coal will still be the worlds king of carbon emissions in 2040.
Coal is expected to account for 38 percent of global carbon dioxide emissions in 2040, down from 43 percent in 2012. Annual growth of coal use by that time is expected to be about 0.6 percent. In 1990, coal was responsible for 39 percent of global carbon emissions. Natural gas, by comparison, will account for 26 percent of global carbon emissions in 2040, up from 20 percent in 2012.
China is the worlds leader in coal consumption. With recent announcements that the country will reduce its use of coal by closing down power plants and shuttering mines, the EIA expects the countrys coal use to peak by 2025 thanks to the its economic slowdown and pledge to cut emissions.
India is where coal will be used the most in the coming decades as its population, expected to surpass Chinas by 2022, explodes and energy demand spikes. Coal produced 72 percent of Indias electricity in 2012, and thats expected to grow 2.6 percent annually through 2040.
Renewables Growth Soars
Credit:EIA
Wind, solar, hydropower and other renewables will be the globes fastest-growing electricity source in 2040, growing 2.9 percent annually.
That growth means that by 2040, renewables, coal and natural gas will each generate about 30 percent of the worlds electricity, with nuclear power and petroleum accounting for the rest.
In other words, electricity generation from renewables will equal that of coal in 25 years.
Theres a catch, though: If you ignore hydropower and look mainly at wind, solar and geothermal, those will generate only about 14 percent of the worlds electricity, up from 5 percent in 2012.
Solar power will see the most growth among all the renewables, growing by 8.3 percent each year. That doesnt add up to much power production overall, though. Solar will account for 15 percent of newly-built renewables through 2040, with hydro and wind each accounting for 33 percent.
Electric Vehicles: Still Not a Hit in 2040
Credit:EIA
Electric vehicles may seem poised to be the next big thing to take over the highways in the U.S. today, but globally through the next 25 years, theyre likely to be tiny players. So small that only 1 percent of the global transportation sector is projected to run on electricity.
The transportation sector of the future is likely to slurp fossil fuels in 2040. About 80 percent of all global transportation will run on gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, and 11 percent will run on natural gas.
Electricity remains a minor fuel for the worlds transportation energy use, although its importance in passenger rail remains high: In 2040, electricity will account for 40 percent of total passenger rail energy consumption, the forecast says.
Paris, Technology Are Big Wild Cards
Climate policies, such as the Paris Climate Agreement, and advancements in technology are major wild cards when it comes to developing computer models meant to divine how the world will actually use energy in the coming decades and what that will mean for greenhouse gas emissions, Sieminski said.
What actually happens in the implementation of the Paris Climate Agreement will be really important, he said. 2040 is 25 years away. Theres plenty of time for things to change.
Technology is also likely to change, and it could bring about a revolution in how the world uses energy. Advancements in battery technology could allow for the storage of more electricity more affordably, while declining costs in renewable electricity could bring major changes in transportation.
All of that is extremely difficult to model, Sieminski said.
For example, previous forecasts missed the U.S. shale oil, gas and fracking boom that occurred over the last decade. No one guessed a decade ago that the U.S. would become the worlds chief crude oil producer as advancements in hydraulic fracturing technology flooded the U.S. market with oil and gas. That boom helped to drive down prices and encourage electric power utilities to move toward natural gas and away from coal-fired power plants.
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Swimsuit Acts Like An Invisible Life Jacket
description: With the exception of toddlers strapped into floaties in a pool, no one wears life jackets when they swim. But a new design for swimwear uses tiny air bubbles to invisibly add buoyancy in the water, so it isn't possible to drown.
"Even people who are very good at swimming can unfortunately drown," says Russia-based designer Katerina Semenko. "This swimsuit is created for everybody, from those who are just trying to attempt to swim to proficient swimmers. If you're good enough in swimming, it will make it easier to swim."
Unlike a life jacket, it doesn't need inflation, and because it's made with multiple tiny bubbles and tubes, it can't be punctured and deflate. It also doesn't float as much.
"The idea is just to add small, minimal efficient extra buoyancy," she says. "Just to support what we already have through nature by our lungs."
Semenko is working on the concept with inventor Valery Griaznov, who was inspired to create an unsinkable swimsuit after reading a book by Alain Bombard, a French physician who sailed across the Atlanticwithout provisions such as a life jacketin a tiny sailboat in 1952. Bombard wrote about the fact that humans naturally float with lungs full of air; it's only when we exhale that we start to sink.
The new swimsuit adds the same volume in air that we lose when breathing outabout two or three kilograms of buoyancy. On men's swimming trunks, tiny air-filled tubes run along the waistband. On a women's swimsuit, decorative tubes cover the neckline and air bags are hidden in pushup cups.
After building mathematical models to show that the conceptual design works, the designers are making prototypes and looking for investors. It's not expected to be more expensive to produce than ordinary swimwear.
"It's a very low-tech device," Semenko says. "It's like elastic tubes produced from regular rubber, from plastic. I don't think it will add extra expense."
Griaznov is also working on similar clothing for people who work in or near the water, such as jackets and shirts with hidden buoyancy, while Semenko continues to develop more swimwear designs.
"We're strong believers in the idea," she says. "We would like to save lives."
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Germany's National Railway Plans To Remove Human Drivers
description: Germany wants to replace human-driven trains with autonomous railway cars, as part of a grand master plan to provide end-to-end public transport throughout Europe. In an interview with Germany's WirstschaftsWoche, Deutsche Bahn's CEO Rdiger Grube called self-driving trains "a major project for the railway."
Deutsche Bahn is Germany's historic national rail company, and it operates all kinds of systems, from trains to car-sharing to bike-sharing programs. The introduction of driverless trains would form a part of its strategy for taking over pretty much every kind of transport and fusing them into one giant, centrally-controlled network.
Flickr user Jim Killock
Grube says that the driverless railway cars would allow control of trains to be centralized. Within one or two decades, he says, all trains could be driven from an "operations center." That should make the system more efficient, as traffic could be routed to avoid congestion and other trouble.
Deutsche Bahn sees its future as a provider of door-to-door transport, not just in Germany but across the continent. This is detailed in a strategy document which outlines ambitions to improve interoperability between the rail networks of different countries and even a "Eurasian Land Bridge" for rail freight from Asia to Europe.
Grube also mentions the need to compete with companies like Uber, although right now its efforts are little more than a new ad campaign with the slogan "Diese Zeit gehrt dir," or "This time belongs to you," presumably selling the fact that you won't have to talk to an annoying cabbie if you take the subway instead.
We already have driverless metro systems and driverless buses, so why not driverless trains? After all, if Google can make its autonomous cars safe out on the unpredictable open road, a vehicle that runs on its own set of rails, to a strict schedule, should't really need a human just to control its speed.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This New Startup Wants To Be The Airbnb For Local Farm Tourism
description: Despite the growing popularity of local foodsales more than doubled between 2008 and 2014most small farms struggle to survive. A new startup called Farmcation is designed to offer a new source of income by connecting farmers with nearby city dwellers who want to visit.
At a test event for the startup, now in beta, Bay Area visitors traveled to an organic family farm in the Central Valley, where they met the farmer, got a tour, picked strawberries, and ate a picnic lunch spread out on a long table next to an orchard and cooked by chefs from a San Francisco restaurant.
"We are answering the question of how we might support small-scale farmers and food producers by capitalizing on an increasingly food-curious and food-conscious population, and in turn how we might make small-scale scale farming more economically viable," says Grace Lesser, co-founder of Farmcation. "Ultimately, we seek to make our cultural relationship with food less transactional and more relational."
Lesser was inspired to create the company after her own mini-experiment in farming. "This past summer, I got married, but my husband and I decided to do things a little bit differently: We decided to grow all the food for the wedding," she says. After raising 65 chickens and growing an acre of vegetablesand, more importantly, meeting the local farming communityshe better understood how difficult agriculture is financially.
The average net income for small-scale farming families is $20,000, and almost all small farmers have to find a second source of income off the farm. "Many stop farming," she says. "A lot of farmers in recent years have started to layer on additional forms of revenue, such as farm tours, farm dinners or DIY classesbut many of them have a hard time investing the resources to do proper marketing and acquire a steady stream of customers. We see a tremendous opportunity to support revenue generation and support small-scale farmers."
A growing number of people, particularly millennials, are interested both in where their food comes from and in spending their money on experiences, rather than things. Lesser and co-founder Caitlyn Toombs saw an opportunity to bring those consumers to farms for tours, fruit picking, actual farm-to-table meals, or classes in making pickles or cheese.
"We've found that unique, accessible experiences focused on food and farming can be hard to find, even in our own backyard," she says.
For farmers, beyond an additional source of income, it can also be a way to encourage guests to enroll in a CSA subscription or market their other products.
Of course, most farmers don't have much spare time, and hosting a group of visitors for a picnic lunch might be more complicated than getting a room ready for an Airbnb guest. Farmcation is still figuring out those details.
"We've recognized that many small farms simply do not have the capacity or the wherewithal to pour resources and time into planning and executing on events and workshops, so we are playing with the possibility of providing a more comprehensive set of consulting services," Lesser says.
The startup is part of an innovation course called Eat Think Design at the University of California-Berkeley, and plans to slowly finalize its business model, with another event this summer. "We want to scale thoughtfully and patiently, in alignment with our core values as a company, though our initial feedback has given us a lot of positive momentum," she says.
Photos: Kim Heath
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Japan Now Has More Electric Charging Points Than Gas Stations
description: Japan has 34,000 gas stations, and now it has over 40,000 charging points for electric cars. This includes car chargers in homes and stations on the street, according to a financial report from Nissan.
That sounds great, and it is, but there are some big differences between filling up with gas and filling up with juice. To begin with, gas is way quicker. You can fill your tank in a few minutes, whereas most car chargers drip-feed the batteries. This in turn changes the way we refuel. Usually we drive until we're almost empty, then rely on the fact that we're never far from a gas station (there are between 122,000 and 157,000 retail locations that sell gas in the U.S.).
Electric cars need a little more planning. Even Tesla's supercharging stations, which are claimed to be 16 times faster than typical EV chargers, need more than an hour to fill up a battery, although a half-hour top-up is good for up to 170 miles. That's why Tesla puts its charging stations near restaurants and shopping centers, so you grab some groceries or a cup of coffee while your car fills up.
The barrier to entry for a charging station is also lower than that for a gas station. No digging tanks for the gas, and no need for trucks to make deliveries. In future, it may be practical for a city-center convenience store to set up a few stations on the curb outside.
Gasoline is still a great medium for energy storage, though, so it'll be around in remote locations for a long time yet, but electric cars seem perfectly suited to urban transport, with its short journeys, and abundance of electricity. Let's see how long it takes for U.S. charging stations to outnumber gas stations.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Reality Check Animation Maps Two Centuries Of U.S. Immigration
description: Two hundred years ago, most immigrants to the United States were from Ireland and Germany, fleeing famine or a lack of jobs. By the late 1800s, Italy and Russia topped the list. It wasn't until the 1960s that most immigrants came from Mexicoand by that point, immigrants made up a far smaller percentage of the overall population than they once had.
A fascinating new animation maps the path of the 79 million people who came to the U.S. over the last two centuries and became permanent residents (it doesn't include people who were forced to come as slaves, mapped here, or undocumented immigrants). Each dot represents 10,000 people.(Your browser doesn't support iframe)"I tried not to get into too much politics in the post, but I think some of the talk about immigrants lately has gotten a little bit out of hand," says Max Galka, who created the visualization for his website, Metrocosm. "Regardless of which side people stand on, I think it's important to keep in mind our history. It wasn't that long ago that we all came over as immigrants, whether it was grandparents or great-grandparents."
Galka, a former derivatives trader on Wall Street who taught himself how to build data visualizations, used data from the Department of Homeland Security's Office of Immigration Statistics.
While the number of immigrants increases over time, and the map becomes more active, Galka makes the point that as a percentage of the total population, immigration is happening on a smaller scale. In some cases, numbers have declined; in recent years, the number of Mexicans who have returned to Mexico is greater than the number who have immigrated to the U.S.
"I think people generally seem to think that immigration now is out of hand, and way worse than before, but in reality it's very low compared to the past," says Galka.
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Why Self-Control Isnt the Reason You Cant Meet Your Goals
description: When we opt for the elevator over the stairs, swear well start eating healthier on Monday, or skip that morning workout, we tend to blame our lack of self-control and willpower.
But what if this lack of self-control is just a cop out? After all, any time you engage in self-sabotaging behavior, its easy to convince yourself that its because youre weak or lazy to allow yourself to continue doing what youre doing.
But maybe the underlying reason why you cant just pass the elevator, cant say no to the cookie, or cant get off the couch to go to the gym is that you havent recognized your priorities and what you truly value: your why. Without knowing your why, its much harder to align your actionsno matter how big or smallwith what you want to work toward.Self-Control Still Matters
Dont get me wrong. Im not saying self-control is dumb and unnecessary. We still need self-control to beat our impulsive nature into submission and help us toward whats good for us instead of what just feels good in the moment (think: going to the gym instead of Netflix and chilling).
Rather, I merely think blaming the problem on a lack of self-control is like putting the cart before the horse. That is: No amount of self-control is going to keep you from consistently turning down donuts or saying yes to yoga if you dont know why you need self-control in the first place.
Why do you need to restrain yourself from eating that cake? Because you know its bad just doesnt cut it. Why should you get up off the couch and do something active? Because you want to have a better body isnt much more illuminating either.
Think of your why as a sort of GPS and your self-control as the car to help get you there.Find Your Deepest Why
What you really want and value arent always immediately obvious. So to find your why, bust out a pen and paperwere going old-school with this. The purpose of this writing exercise (borrowed from fitness coach JC Deen) is to help you dig up your deepest motivation for why you want to do something.
Start by thinking about your current goal. Lets say you want to lose weight. Write it down and then ask yourself, Why? Maybe its because you want fit into your jeans from college again. Okay. Why? Because you think it will make you look hot. Why? And out comes your real why: You want to feel confident in yourself.
You could even do this exercise for smaller habit changes like drink more water every day or go to bed earlier. Once youve discovered your true why, write it down and keep it somewhere you can see (maybe you post it on your bathroom mirror, at your desk at work, or set it as the background on your phone). This way, when youre sidetracked by temptations or start to wonder what the right choice is, itll serve as a powerful reminder.
Use Your Why to Guide Decisions
Once youve figured out your why, you can now go forth and use your powers for good! Develop better self-control by doing the following:
Understand the risks versus rewards.
The idea of risk versus reward is often used in finance, but its applicable in various areas of your life, including fitness and weight loss-related decisions.
By weighing the risk of a decision against your goal, you are teaching yourself to take a step back rather than simply going with the act now, think later approach.
Lets say your goal is weight loss. For a coworkers birthday, someone kindly brought a store-bought, vanilla-flavored cake. Here, the potential reward is your enjoyment of the cake. Enjoyment might be lukewarm since lets sayvanilla is not exactly your favorite. The risk of your decision to eat the cake might be regret, or worse, setting off the idea that you might as well eat junk the rest of the day. You weigh the risks and decide that the reward is not worth it and that you might as well save it for something else thatll totally be worth the risk and make you say F@#K yes!
Just do things now.
When you say something like Ill start my diet on Monday, or Ill work out more when things slow down at the office, youre offloading the responsibility of making decisions to change to the future you.
You hope that future you will miraculously take up responsibility for making the better and healthier decisions. Except in reality, future you is equally as foolish and probably just as likely to make similar excuses. And on and on the cycle goes.
So rather than just hoping for future you to be a hero, take action now. As Kelly McGonigal, psychology professor at Stanford University wrote in her book, The Willpower Instinct, A short practice that you do every day is better than a long practice you keep putting off to tomorrow. This way, future you actually does have a chance to continue making the choices that enrich your life. And really, the more you do it, the easier itll be to continue making the right choices.
The Takeaway
Once you truly know why you want something, it becomes easier to prioritize your goals, to develop skills like better willpower and self-control, and to keep your values front-of-mind in everything you do.
We need to separate the real rewards that give our lives meaning from the false rewards that keep us distracted and addicted. Learning to make this distinction may be the best we can do, writes McGonigal. In other words, you do things because you want to, not because you feel like you should. Plus, if your priorities, values, and actions all align, then youre less likely to feel stressed, guilty, or overwhelmed (all of which could contribute to a greater loss of self-control).
So if you have a goal to reachwhether its to get fit, lose weight, or simply be more activeyou can attempt (and likely fail) to bulldoze your way through it with willpower and self-control. But if you dont know what you value or your priorities, throwing your hands up and walking away will be all too easy.
This article was written by Stephanie Lee from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: What Makes A Thriving And Interesting City? Something Called Collision Density
description: Who was right, Jane Jacobs or Alfred Marshall and Michael Porter? The renowened urbanist, Jacobs argued for decades of the importance of density and diversity of economic actors in cities as a primary driver of innovation. Economists Marshall and Porter, on the other hand, have argued that clustering of similar industries in industrial parks and regions is the best way to stimulate innovation, job growth, and economic development. Depending on the time, location, and industry, perhaps they are all right. Increasingly, however, it appears that more innovation and entrepreneurship is happening in the dynamic, diverse urban areas as opposed to suburban tech parks.
Richard Florida, for example, has been documenting the recent migration of venture capital investments from suburban tech parks into urban areas and innovation districts. This, he has found, is even happening in Silicon Valley, where more investment is going into startups in San Francisco than in the Valley. One argument for this trend, which is very consistent with Jacobs's reasoning, is the idea of "collision density."
The term has its origins in physics where it is used to reference the rate of interactions among atoms in a physical system. Last year, I first heard someone reference the idea of fostering more of this "collision density" between the innovators and entrepreneurs. I must admit that I had never heard of it being applied to the entrepreneurial ecosystem before. After some research, it seems it really has yet to be used in any peer-reviewed academic journals about entrepreneurshipbut it's very important to the idea of a thriving, smart city.
I suspect this is not a surprise. When artists, designers, technologists, investors, community activitists, engineers, and entrepreneurs mix together, more innovative ideas are likely to emerge than just a group of engineers discussing the potential for blockchain, peer-to-peer models, distributed renewable energy, and so on. I say this despite somewhat agreeing with the Guy Kawasaki's infamous statement that while engineers add to the valuation of a startup team, MBAs detract from valuation.
So, I believe that startup cities are those that amass a significant amount of potential to facilitate collision density between different kinds of thinkers. Collision density is naturally much higher in cities than in suburbs and suburban tech parks because cities house a much higher rate of diverse actors in smaller, more compact spaces. As the tools of innovation are becoming more democratized, and cities are increasingly home to dozens, if not hundreds, of accelerators, coworking spaces, fab labs, and the like, combined with proximity to artists, designers, schools, and users, entrepreneurs are able to regularly mingle with and create mashups of ideas, some of which may turn into commercializable innovations.
This is part of series of articles based on The Emergence of the Urban Entrepreneur, by Boyd Cohen and Pablo Muoz, with a foreword by Richard Florida. It will be published in May.
A recent World Bank study suggested that meeting places (like coworking spaces) and other networking assets (like meetups) combine to increase collision density in a city. They even went as far as to recommend formulas for measuring collision density either as "collisionable hours per year" or "collisionable hours per square foot."
This suggests that not all cities are created equal when it comes to the potential they offer to support increased collision density. Of course, many initiatives that could support increased collisions occur from the grassroots innovation and entrepreneurial movement in a city. I believe that the number and diversity of meetups in a city will contribute to the growth of collision density and result in more innovative startups and collaborations. For example, on a random April day in my hometown of Barcelona, there were 56 different meetup activities on the Meetups.com calendar, including an expat breakfast, a makers gathering, a meeting for female entrepreneurs, a free code camp, a startup networking meeting, and of course a range of artistic and creative activities from tango classes to improv music jams and even a science talk about "Charles Darwin and evolution by natural selection."
Richard Florida long ago drew the world's attention to the importance of attracting creative mobile citizens to startup cities. I would argue that Florida's formula of "talent, tolerance, and technology" can equal collision density, which may be one of the secret sauces to creating a vibrant urban entrepreneurial ecosystem. City administrators would be wise to pay close attention to this phenomenon in the global competition for urban innovation talent.
This article was written by Boyd Cohen from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The Right Way to Use a Rowing Machine
description: Once relegated to the back of the gym, the rowing machine is experiencing a surge in popularityso much so that there are now entire boutique studios devoted to it and its awesome total-body benefits. But the machine can be intimidating at first. Do I lead with legs or arms? Should my shoulders feel sore? And why do my feet keep slipping out of the straps? You're not alone.
The most important thing to remember is: "It's about power, not speed," says Melody Davi, rowing instructor at City Row in New York City. If you walk out of a rowing class with a sore back, you're doing it wrong, Davi says. Instead focus on using your lower-body powerhouse musclesglutes, hamstrings, quadsto push yourself out and then gently glide back in.
Before we dive into more technique, here are two terms that will help guide your workout:
Strokes per minute: How many times you row (stroke) in 1 minute. Keep this number at 30 or less, Davi says. Remember: It's about power, not just flinging your body back and forth.
Split time: The amount of time it takes to row 500 meters. Aim for 2 minutes or less. To increase your pace, push out with more power; don't just pump your arms faster.
3 Steps to the Perfect Row1. Master leg isolations.
Start by holding the oar with arms extended, knees bent, and weight on the balls of your feet (this position is called the "catch"). With back straight and core engaged, push back using only legs, rolling through feet so they are flat when legs are extended. Keep arms extended throughout.2. Add arm isolations.
After you've gotten used to pushing with your lower body, practice arm isolations. With legs straight, pull oar toward chest. Bend elbows out to sides and touch oar just under chest. Hold the oar lightly (more on that below) and use upper back (not shoulders or biceps) to pull oar toward you. Engage the same muscles as you do for a push-up or bent-over row.3. Row with perfect form.
It's time to put everything together! With back straight, core engaged, and balls of feet firmly in straps, push back first with lower body then use upper back to pull hands toward chest. Next, release arms toward the base and bend knees so you glide back to starting position.
Think: legs, arms, arms, legs. Another tip? Take one beat to push out and two beats to glide back, Davi says. In other words, your move back should be twice as fast as your return to starting position.
5 Common Rowing Mistakes (and How to Fix Them!)The Mistake: You hunch your back.
This usually means you're letting your shoulders do all the work.The Fix: Start with perfect posture.
In catch, push shoulders back (to open chest) and down (so there's no tension around neck). Keep back straight by engaging core and breathing deeply (trust us, it's hard to take deep breaths when you've got bad posture).The Mistake: You make a scooping motion as you row.
If you bend knees before arms are fully extended on the return, you'll need to make this scooping motion to avoid hitting legs with the oar. Rowing is a chain reaction, so one poor form choice can lead to another.The Mistake: You raise your arms too high.
Don't decapitate yourself with the oar! Pulling the oar all the way up to your chin isn't just bad form; it probably means you're using more energy than what's necessary, Davi says.The Fix: Bring oar to rest just below your chest.
Use upper-back muscles to pull the oar toward chest. At the end of each row, elbows should be bent more than 90 degrees and forearms should be even with rib cage.The Mistake: You let your knees drop to the side.
We love relaxing but letting your knees flop wide is a bit much for a workout. It likely means you're not engaging inner-thigh muscles or activating hip flexors.The Fix: Finish with knees in line with hips.
Use inner thighs to keep knees close together or think about zipping up your legs as you push away and glide in.The Fix: Put the strap over your big toe joint.
Another way to keep your knees from flopping? Strap in your feet correctly. The adjustable strap goes over the joint at the base of your big toes. Toes should bend comfortably so you're able to push off balls of feet.The Mistake: You have a death grip on the oar.
There's no need to wrap your thumbs around the oar or hang on as if it's a pull-up bar. Chances are a grip like this will create unnecessary tension in your forearms.The Fix: Hold the oar with 3 fingers.
Place your hands on the outside of the oar (not the center). Float pinky fingers off the end and rest thumbs on top (don't wrap them around). Hold the oar with the first, middle, and ring fingers of each hand.
Every time you pull back, remember to use your upper back, not shoulders and biceps. This will help take the pressure off your hands.
Special thanks to Melody Davi, instructor at City Row, who modeled perfect rowing form for us. Davi wears a C9 by Champion top, Lorna Jane leggings, and her own Nike sneakers.
This article was written by AMY EISINGER from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Social Network Algorithms Are Distorting Reality By Boosting Conspiracy Theories
description: After an anonymous source alleged that Facebook's Trending News algorithm (and human staff) was intentionally hiding conservative news from the social network, all hell broke loose. Congressional hearings have been called. Whether the reports are rightand whether hearings are justifiedunderneath the uproar is a largely unspoken truth: The algorithms that drive social networks are shifting the reality of our political systemsand not for the better.
Algorithms, network effects, and zero-cost publishing are enabling crackpot theories to go viral.
The filter bubblethe idea that online recommendation engines learn what we like and thus keep us only reading things we agree withhas evolved. Algorithms, network effects, and zero-cost publishing are enabling crackpot theories to go viral, anduncheckedthese ideas are impacting the decisions of policy makers and shaping public opinion, whether they are verified or not.
Fiction As Fact
First it is important to understand the technology that drives the system. Most algorithms work simply: Web companies try to tailor their content (which includes news and search results) to match the tastes and interests of readers. However as online organizer and author Eli Pariser says in the TED Talk where the idea of the filter bubble became popularized: "There's a dangerous unintended consequence. We get trapped in a 'filter bubble' and don't get exposed to information that could challenge or broaden our worldview."
Facebook's news feed and personalized search delivers results that are tailored just to us because a social network's business is to keep us interested and happy. Feeling good drives engagement and more time spent on a site, and that keeps a user targetable with advertisements for longer. Pariser argues that this nearly invisible editing of the Internet limits what we seeand that it will "ultimately prove to be bad for us and bad for democracy."
In his 1962 book, The Image: A Guide to Pseudo-Events in America, former Librarian of Congress Daniel J. Boorstin describes a world where our ability to technologically shape reality is so sophisticated, it overcomes reality itself. "We risk being the first people in history," he writes, "to have been able to make their illusions so vivid, so persuasive, so 'realistic' that they can live in them."
Since Pariser's TED Talk, we've reached the point where social networks are now used as primary news outlets. Seeking news from traditional sourcesnewspapers and magazineshas been replaced with a new model: getting all of one's news from trending stories on social networks. The people that we know best are most likely to influence us because we trust them. Their ideas and beliefs shape ours. And the tech behind social networks is built to enhance this. Where "proximity" used to mean knowing people next door or down the street, it now includes online communities. It's easier than ever to find like-minded people independently of geography.
Join an anti-vaccine group, and your suggestions will include anti-GMO, chemtrail watch, flat Earther (yes, really), and "curing cancer naturally" groups.
Once a user joins a single group on Facebook, the social network will suggest dozens of others on that topic, as well as groups focused on tangential topics that people with similar profiles also joined. That is smart business. However, with unchecked content, it means that once people join a single conspiracy-minded group, they are algorithmically routed to a plethora of others. Join an anti-vaccine group, and your suggestions will include anti-GMO, chemtrail watch, flat Earther (yes, really), and "curing cancer naturally" groups. Rather than pulling a user out of the rabbit hole, the recommendation engine pushes them further in. We are long past merely partisan filter bubbles and well into the realm of siloed communities that experience their own reality and operate with their own facts.
Zero-Cost Publishing Is Shifting Us From "Crowd Wisdom" To "Viral Nonsense"
Another tech trend fueling this issue is the ability to publish ideas online at no cost, and to gather an audience around those ideas. It's now easier than ever to produce content specifically designed to convince people who may be on the fence or "curious" about a particular topic. This is an especially big issue when it comes to violent extremism, and pseudoscience. Self-publishing has eliminated all the checks and balances of reputable mediafact-checkers, editors, distribution partners.
Social publishing platforms have made all of us content creators. And this is a wonderful, tremendously valuable innovation that enables talented, or traditionally voiceless, people to be heard. We believe in the wisdom of crowds. Inherent in our platform designs is the conviction that good content will get noticed, and the rest will stagnate, unseen, in lonely corners of the web. But the increasing proliferation of fringe content is beginning to suggest that this is no longer as true as it once was.
Social platformsin their effort to keep users continually engaged (and targeted with relevant ads)are designed to surface what's popular and trending, whether it's true or not. Since nearly half of web-using adults now get their news from Facebook in any given week, what counts as "truth" on our social platforms matters. When nonsense stories gain traction, they're extremely difficult to correct. And stories jump from platform to platform, reaching new audiences and "going viral" in ways and at speeds that were previously impossible.
Many Brazilians, for example, think the Brazilian government is lying to them about Zika causing birth defects, though they aren't quite sure whether they should be worried about vaccines, Monsanto, chemtrails, or GMO mosquitoes as the true cause.
Once you see the evidence that it is leaking into the mainstream, and realize that it's starting to affect policies that affect everyone, then it's no longer a curiosityit's something we need to understand.
People in Portland, Oregon, voted in 2013 to stop the fluoridation of watera common practice to improve dental health. Depending on which opposition group you asked, fluoridation was either a technique used by fascist regimes to pacify their citizens or a toxic chemical that causes cancer.
For instance, last year local residents in a town in Bastrop County, Texas, became convinced that a routine military practice exercise known as Jade Helm 15 was a secret government plot to impose martial law and confiscate Texans' firearms. The uproar was so large that it reached the desk of Texas governor Greg Abbott. Abbott then legitimized the conspiracy theory by making a statement declaring that the Texas State Guard would monitor the exercise.
You might ask: Isn't this simply an artifact of reality, reflected online? Maybe all of us simply weren't exposed to this "other" world and are simply coming into contact with it thanks to the Internet?
That is one possibility. But the Internet doesn't just reflect reality anymore; it shapes it. The mere fact of these theories being online and discoverable helps create this phenomenon.
How Big Is This Issue? Look at The Statistics
The problem is that social-web activity is notorious for an asymmetry of passion. On many issues, the most active social media voices are the conspiracist fringe.The majority of people know that vaccines don't cause autism, and that 9/11 was not an inside job. They don't dedicate hours to creating content or tweeting to reinforce the obvious. But passionate truthers and extremists produce copious amounts of content in their commitment to "wake up the sheeple." Last month, for example, a study looked at the relative percentages of pro-vaccine vs. anti-vaccine content on Pinterest and Instagram; 75% of the immunization-related pinned content was opposed to vaccines. This was a dramatic shift from studies of social networks in the early 2000s, when the percentage of negative content was estimated at around 25%.
On Pinterest and Instagram, 75% of the immunization-related pinned content was opposed to vaccines.
This asymmetry of passion, and the resulting proliferation of nonsense on social channels, is particularly strong where pseudoscience is concerned. Consider the Food Babe, an anti-GMO "food safety activist" who boasts 1 million Facebook fans and a committed #foodbabearmy on Twitter dedicated to harassing companies (such as the Girl Scouts) to get them to remove ingredients that are hard to pronounce. When refutations, corrections, or takedowns of her often misinformed agenda are published in the mainstream media, her followers dig in more, convinced that the pushback is because they've struck a nerve in Big Agriculture or Big Food, or because the reporter is "bought."
Activism spawned from these online conspiracy groups wastes time and money, and it's increasing. In a recent interview, Californian Republican Representative Devin Nunes said that90% of the communication he receives from constituents is conspiracy-theorist nonsense, up from approximately 10% when he took office in 2003. It's impacting the political process on everything from zoning laws (fears of UN Agenda 21) to public health policy (water fluoridation). In Hawaii last month, for example, lawmakers killed a simple procedural bill that would have allowed the state to more quickly adopt federal guidelines on administering vaccines in case of an outbreakbecause outraged residents claimed that vaccines were responsible for Zika (and, of course, for autism).
There are plenty of explanations about why conspiracy theories exist. These range from a decreasing amount of trust in leaders and institutions to proportionality bias (a belief that big events must have big causes) to projection and more. The most predominant factorconfirmation bias, the tendency to use information to confirm what you already believeis in many ways made worse, not better, in a world where more, not less, information is available, thanks to Google and the Internet.
How Do We Fix This? Address The Underlying Tech
Ultimately, we need our best minds playing both offense and defense if we are going to reduce the prevalence and impact of conspiracist influence both online, and in real life. How do we do that?
Our platform designers themselves should be considering what steps they can take to bring us back.
We need a shift in how we design our ever-evolving social platforms. The very structure and incentives in social networks have brought us to this point. Our platform designers themselves should be considering what steps they can take to bring us back. Perhaps we should have more conversations about ethics in designand maybe these Facebook allegations will kick that off. Their product design is having a dramatic impact on public policy, and the effects are only going to get stronger. What responsibility do the designers of those products have to civil discourse?
Platforms have the power here. Some have begun to introduce algorithms that warn readers that a share is likely a hoax, or satire. Google is investigating the possibility of "truth ranking" for web searches, which is promising. These are great starting points, but a regulation by algorithm has its own set of advantages and pitfalls. The primary concern is that turning companies into arbiters of truth is a slippery slope, particularly where politically rooted conspiracies are concerned.
But we have to start somewhere. As Eli Pariser said: "We really need you to make sure that these algorithms have encoded in them a sense of the public life, a sense of civic responsibility. We need you to make sure that they're transparent enough that we can see what the rules are that determine what gets through our filters." The Internet isn't separate from the real world; building the web we want is building the future we want.
Renee DiResta works in technology in San Francisco. She volunteers on public health policy issues with Vaccinate California. Follow her on Twitter.
This article was written by Renee DiResta from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 39 Delicious Things You Didn't Know You Could Make in a Microwave
description: The microwave has been relegated to serve as a simple heater of leftovers, but it's good for so much more. No, we dont mean theyre also a cancer-causing death traptheres little convincing evidence that microwave ovens release enough radiation to harm human beings.1 In fact, microwave ovens have been taking undeserved criticism for way too long: Theyre called ovens for a reason, and they can create meals equal to anything from a standard oven.
Skeptical? Weve put together a list of absolutely delicious mealsbreakfast, snacks, dinner, and dessertthat will quickly make you forget all the disappointing, soggy pizza and rubbery leftover meat. Whip up just one of these beauties. You wont believe your taste buds.
BreakfastPhoto: Bran Appetit1. Strawberry Microwave Breakfast Bowl
Buckwheat groats might sound a bit intimidating, but theyre a terrific source of complete protein and a great substitute for plain old morning oatmeal. This gluten-free breakfast combines oats, flax meal, and applesauce with fiber-rich buckwheat for a delicious meal that can't be beat in healthfulness or taste.2. Crispy Microwave Bacon
Heres a hint: This method doesnt involve paper towels. If you really like your bacon crispy (who doesnt?), try heating the slices on top of an overturned bowl; the extra fat drips down the sides, leaving you with an extraordinarily easy breakfast that no one will believe came straight out of a microwave.Photo: The Gingham Apron3. Blueberry Muffin in a Mug
Muffins that taste more like cake arent exactly a healthy breakfast choice, but this version is definitely an exception. Made with fresh berries, almond flour, and coconut oil, theres no need to fight this temptationdig in!Photo: Fresh April Flours4. 10-Minute Cheesy Vegetable Quiche With Cauliflower Crust
This versatile recipe delivers perfection time after time, regardless of the ingredients. Instead of a pastry crust, this version uses cauliflower (which also makes for an awesome pizza crust). This might just be your new favorite on-the-go breakfast!Photo: Sugar Stiletto Style5. French Toast in a Mug
Its not quite as crunchy as thick French toast made in a pan, but this very viable alternative is nearly as tastyand it only takes two minutes to make. Torn bread and whisked eggs remain the primary ingredients, and this breakfast is just as versatile as the traditional version. We like ours with cinnamon and a little vanilla extract!6. Miracle Microwave Poached Eggs
Ah, poached eggs. The best way to turn a simple breakfast food into a giant pain in the ass. The traditional method requires boiling water, using just enough salt and vinegar, keeping the water swirling at just the right speed, cracking the egg in just the right way... in other words, it's just too easy to screw up. But the trusty microwave can change all that: All you need is a microwave-safe bowl, hot water, and a little salt and vinegar (and, of course, an egg). A short zap later, youll have the perfect topper for any healthier breakfast sandwich.Photo: Lauren's Latest7. Cinnamon Maple Breakfast Quinoa
This healthy breakfast imbues quinoa with a creamy, cinnamony quality to great effect, delivering a protein-packed, high-fiber breakfast that tastes like a pancake gone healthy.8. Microwaved Scrambled Eggs
Crack a couple of eggs into a bowl, scramble with a fork, and microwave in 30-second increments until cooked through, stirring at each interval. Alakazam, scrambled eggs! Throw in some chopped veggies and serve with a slice of toast for a complete, filling meal.Photo: The Wannabe Chef9. Breakfast Paleo Mug Cake
Made with just banana, almond flour, cocoa powder, and an egg, this cake tastes like dessert, but might just be healthy enough to enjoy at breakfast time. (Well, at least occasionally.)
Snacks and ExtrasPhoto: The Bitten Word10. Microwave Sweet Potato Chips
For a twist on your usual chips, this recipe is a great way to use up some veggies. It comes out looking super classynot to mention, these chips are a great excuse to experiment with some healthy dips!Photo: Sarah Hearts11. Microwave Potato Chips
Few people would put crispy and microwave in the same sentence, but nuked potato chips are a thing, and they use far less oil than your typical package of Lays. These are surprisingly simple; just remember they'll continue to crisp as they cool down.12. Toasted Nuts
Toasting nuts releases their essential oils, which gives them that oh-so-fragrant scent. But using the oven isnt always necessary. Microwaving nuts wont give them the same dark color as using the oven, but this method will give them a crunch and taste thats nearly identical to the traditional method.Photo: Nuggle Mama13. DIY Microwave Popcorn
You dont need to spend entire dollars on store-bought microwave popcorn. Its easy (and a lot cheaper) to DIY with some corn kernels, a paper bag, and a little tape. Movie night, here we come!14. Microwave Pickles
For the pickling spice, use equal parts mustard seeds, celery seeds, and whole black peppercorns, and add a dash of turmeric and chili. Throw everything together in a jar with some vinegar, sugar, cucumbers, and onion, microwave for about 8 minutes, and voila!Photo: Vittles and Bits15. Banana Bread in a Mug
Single-serve meals to the rescue! Even breads can be made in a microwave without much hassle. Simply pour everything into the mug, stir it up, microwave for a couple of minutes, and youve got a no-mess afternoon snack for one.Photo: The Kitchn16. Frothed Milk
Caf-quality cappuccinos have been at our fingertips this whole time, and we didnt even know it. All thats needed is a jar, a microwave, and some milk. Shake it up, heat for a few seconds, and youve got all thats needed for some super-classy coffee. Cinnamon optional!Photo: King Arthur Flour17. Toasted Coconut
Whether its for topping a dessert or to nosh on its own (we wont tell), toasting coconut has never been so easy. Simply microwaving for 30-second bursts and stirring regularly results in picture-perfect toasted coconut in less than 10 minutes.Photo: Stephs Bite by Bite18. 90-Second English Muffin
Whether youre eating gluten-free, avoiding grains, or just love almond flour (this recipe calls it almond meal), these English muffins are a terrific addition to a healthy breakfast. Paleo McMuffins, anyone?
Lunch and Dinner19. Flaky Microwaved Salmon
This is a dish that really nails the message that the microwave is an oven and can make dishes so healthy, tasty, and fast that youll wish youd taken advantage sooner. The Sriracha mayonnaise adds a lot to this meal, but we recommend swapping the mayo portion for some protein-rich Greek yogurt.20. Four-Minute Corn on the Cob
The trick to making really simple corn on the cob is to leave the husks ontheres no need for stripping, soaking, wrapping, or even a plate! After four short minutes, the corn is perfectly cooked, without the mess.21. Steamed Vegetables
No need for a steamer here. All thats required is a microwave-safe bowl with a cover. Dont be shyit turns out that cooking vegetables in a microwave may help them better retain their nutrients, due to the shortened cooking time.1
Works Cited
The effect of microwaves on nutrient value of foods. Cross GA, Fung DY. Critical reviews in food science and nutrition, 1982, Sep.;16(4):1040-8398.
22. Quick and Easy Polenta
Polenta is a wonderful and filling base for just about any savory meal, and it works especially well as a comfort food during cold winter months. It turns out the cornmeal-based dish is super easy to make in the microwave too. This recipe pairs the creamy stuff with sauted greens for an easy comfort meal thats rich in flavor and nutrients.Photo: The Kitchn23. One-Bowl Mac and Cheese
No more boxed macaroni with that mysterious orange cheese powder! This recipe is about as wholesome as mac and cheese gets and nearly as easy. It only requires water, macaroni, and your own favorite blend of cheesesbut wed suggest adding in a few broccoli florets or a handful of spinach too.24. Meatloaf in a Mug
Feel free to swap out the onion soup mix in this recipe for any kind of seasoning mix (or your own personal blend!) and watch this meal come to life. Just be sure to serve it with a salador try mixing in some shredded carrot and spinach for an extra dose of veggies!25. Chicken Fajitas
Super easy, super fast, and super delicious, this Mexican staple is actually a pretty good source of vegetables. Made with a simple mixture of onions, peppers, and chicken, it can be enjoyed on its own or wrapped into tortillas with cheese (and maybe a dollop of Greek yogurt).Photo: Healthy Liv26. 5-Minute Vegetarian Burrito Bowl
This quick burrito bowl is a perfect "clean out your pantry" recipe. It may not be Chipotle, but with cooked rice, black beans, avocado, Greek yogurt, and salsa, this is the perfect meal for a quick dinner or lunch on the go.27. 10-Minute Microwave Steamed Artichoke
Theyve got more fiber than any other vegetable, but actually preparing an artichoke has never quite seemed worth the hassle. That is, until we found this recipe, which takes the vegetable from raw to ready in less than 10 minutes. Dont forget to add a little lemon juiceit'll keep the innards from turning brown and tone down the bitterness.Photo: Food Network28. Microwave Mushroom Risotto
Wine, broth, cheese, and lots of mushrooms come together to create this simple, Italian-inspired risotto that's versatile enough to take on any extra vegetables. Wed include some sauted spinach, but the possibilities are endless.Photo: Bigger Bolder Baking29. Microwave Potato Soup in a Mug
Quick soups don't always have to come in a can! This easy potato soup recipe is made completely in the microwave and has a bed of bacon, cheese, and sour cream sprinkled on top. Just make sure you use a large mug, since the water in the soup will bubble up as it cooks.30. Microwave "Roasted" Garlic
This garlic winds up more steamed than roasted, since the microwave is basically steaming the garlic in its own head. The flavor isnt quite as mellow, but the result is so fast and delicious that the difference is barely noticeable. Remember to keep the microwave on 50 percent power for this one.Photo: The New York Times31. South Indian Eggplant Curry
Eggplant is delish, but roasting them takes forever, and sauteing can require a little too much oil. Fret no more, since it turns out the humble microwave can prepare an eggplant for consumption in about 15 minutes! This recipe adds in lots of yummy spices, chickpeas, coconut, and cilantro for a Indian-inspired dish.Photo: St. Louis Dispatch32. Coffee Cup Chilaquiles
Part nachos, part quesadilla, all awesome. This quick, Mexican-inspired meal is so easy that its likely to become a late-night staple. Made from tortilla chips, salsa, cheese, and egg, its a good thing that only one serving can be made at a timeits easy to wolf down three! Add some leftover shredded chicken or beef for extra protein.
DessertPhoto: The Almond Eater33. Chocolate Chip Pecan Mug Cake
In less than 5 minutes, you can have healthy (sub in a different flour to make it gluten-free) cake in your bellyand with this single-serving recipe, theres no chance of overeating. This version uses chocolate chips and pecans, but you can use this as your go-to mug cake recipe and add in any of your favorite nuts or toppings.Photo: Running With Spoons34. Oatmeal Cookie Dough Mug Cake
Coconut flour is the magic ingredient in this delectable single-serve dish. The gluten-free recipe also kicks butter and oil to the curb, making it an even healthier 5-minute snack.Photo: Vikalinka35. Spiced Pumpkin Molten Mug Cake
Delivering plenty of fiber and pumpkin flavor, this gooey molten cake will be your new favorite dessert. Try using buckwheat flour for a healthier touch and added protein boost.Photo: Snixy Kitchen36. Chocolate Mochi Mug Cake
Mochi is a simple Japanese cake thats made from a mixture of glutinous rice flour (and is way more delicious than it sounds). This recipe adds in cocoa powder and milk for a chocolaty twist on this traditional treat.Photo: Your Lighter Side37. Minute Microwave Cheesecake
Cream cheese, sour cream, lemon juice, egg, and a sweetener of your choosing all come together to make this astonishingly simple, delicious, and low-carb dessert. Top with plenty of fresh berries, and there might be no need for extra sweetener at all.Photo: Imma Eat That38. Coffee Cake Mug Cake
This bad boy is just the perfect accompaniment to an afternoon cup of joe, and theres no risk of downing half a loaf before dinnertime. Plus its cooked in the same dish you eat it fromfewer dishes for the win.Photo: Amy's Healthy Baking39. Skinny Single-Serve Microwave Brownie
A healthier chocolate treat that can be made in a microwave sounds like utter nonsense... until you put it in your mouth. This sugar-free, butter-free concoction will certainly be appreciated by those who like their chocolate dark.
Originally published December 2013. Updated May 2016.
Works Cited
Food irradiation: a safe and useful technology. Parnes RB, Lichtenstein AH. Nutrition in clinical care : an official publication of Tufts University, 2005, Mar.;7(4):1096-6781.
Irradiation in the production, processing and handling of food. Final rule. . Federal register, 2008, Oct.;73(164):0097-6326.
This article was written by Nick English from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Am I Just Bored or Should We Break Up?
description: Q: I'm 26. My boyfriend and I have been together for four years and now live together. Even though we haven't been fighting, I just feel indifferent toward him. I hardly ever want to hang out with him and don't feel sexually attracted to him anymore. I still love him, but I'm not happy. Am I just comfortable in the relationship and afraid to leave? How do I know if it's worth trying to save the relationship or if I've reached the point of no return?
A: Most of us have experienced that crazy, out-of-control feeling at the beginning of a new romance. Our heart races, we feel a rush of adrenaline, and all we want to do is be with that person. This is known as passionate love, and it feels wonderful and exciting.
But here's the truth: Studies show that passionate love declines in most romantic relationships after about 12 to 18 months. Most couples fail to maintain the urgent longing for each other that originally led them to be together.
And there is a very logical reason for this. At the beginning of a relationship, passionate love is high because everything is new and stimulating. You are learning interesting and exciting information about your partner every day, which fuels the passion. Plus, at the early stages of your relationship, you idealized your partner and saw him or her through rose-colored glasses. But, as time went by, you took the rose-colored glasses off and began to notice their imperfectionsand trust me, everyone has flaws.
What happened to the days when we couldnt wait to rip our clothes off?
As a therapist and relationship researcher, I can tell you that you are not alone in asking, What happened to the days when we couldnt wait to rip our clothes off? Once novelty and mystery wear off and the everyday activities of living together settle in, the excitement and sexual desire are bound to fade. While time and getting to know your partner is comforting and increases companionate love (the love of support, intimacy, and friendship), this can also lead you to think that you're headed toward a sexless, boring, or incredibly dull love life.
So what does the future hold for you and your relationship? Should you stay and work things out? Sit down and ask yourself the questions below to see whether youre in a relationship that is worth saving and whether you can reignite the passion.
3 Questions to Consider1. Is your relationship worth saving?
You say you love your boyfriend, but there are three important aspects of your relationship to think about. First, do you trust your boyfriend? If you trust him, you believe he is honest and truthful to you, wouldnt hurt or deceive you, and has your best interests at heart.
Next, are the two of you similar in underlying key life values? Do you and he think similarly when it comes to those values that are most critical to you and your life, like the importance of religion, family, or health?
And lastly, how do the two of you handle stress and conflict together? You want to handle your disagreements and stress in a positive, constructive way. If all three of the previous qualities are present in your relationship, then it's at least worth trying to see if you can save it.
2. Are your expectations the problem?
We all grew up hearing fairy tales about a handsome young prince marrying his beautiful princess and living happily ever after. But the fairy tale didnt warn us that one day, when the relationship was no longer new and different, our magical romance would suddenly appear familiar and routine. Do you expect fireworks all the time or a constant attraction that never disappears or comes and goes?
Understanding how passion works is a key secret to making your relationship last. It allows you to have completely different expectations of yourself, your relationship, and your partner.
Many people crave passion, take it for granted, and assume the intensity and excitement will last forever. Unfortunately, these assumptions are wrong. Understanding how passion works is a key secret to making your relationship last. It allows you to have completely different expectations of yourself, your relationship, and your partner. Instead of thinking, Whats wrong with us? youll be able to calmly say, Hey, my relationship isnt in trouble after all! I should expect passion to fade over time. This is totally typical. You might even decide to work harder on your relationship and give it another try. (Here's more advice on how to know if your relationship doubts are normal or not.)
3. Are you able to add some new behaviors and reignite the passion?
Even if you reset your expectations, that doesnt mean that your relationship should only be about friendship. The elements of passion, romance, and sexual desire are still essential to any long-term relationship. My long-term study of couples finds that you can rekindle the passion and sexual desire by adding three behaviors back into the relationship: newness, mystery, and arousalthe same behaviors that created the passion in the first place.
The first strategy: Engage in new activities with your boyfriend. It can be as simple as finding a new restaurant in a part of the city where you never go. Or you could try water skiing for the first time or attending a cooking class together.
The second way to reignite the passion is to add some mystery or surprise back into your relationship. And yes, all of what you're thinking regarding role playing and lingerie counts. But my research also finds that activities, which reduce boredom and predictability, such as spontaneously going out to play miniature golf at midnight or surprising him with tickets to a basketball game, can lead to sparks.
The third strategy is to seek arousal-producing activities. Studies show that if you do an activity together that creates an endorphin and adrenaline rush, this state of heightened arousal can actually get transferred to your partner and relationship. In a sense, you're tricking your brain to attribute these pleasurable sensations to your partner. A vigorous workout side-by-side at the gym will work. Or watch a really scary moviethe kind that makes your heart raceor scream your head off on a roller coaster ride at an amusement park.
After you reset your expectations about passion, try adding these behaviors to your relationship. Assuming that your relationship has trust, compatibility, and you can manage your differences, the passion and sexual attraction should return.
On the other hand, if you've exhausted all options and you're still truly unhappy, it may be worth taking a break apart or ending the relationship completely. Relationships should still be fun and you should continue to grow with a partner. And don't forget: The world is full of interesting people.
Dr. Terri Orbuch (a.k.a. The Love Doctor) is a professor, therapist, research scientist, and author of five best-selling books, including Finding Love Again: 6 Simple Steps to a New and Happy Relationship. Learn more about her at DrTerriTheLoveDoctor.com.
This article was written by Dr. Terri Orbuch from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Hate Your Job? It's Illegal For Your Boss To Force You To Act Happy
description: More managers than ever are striving to create a happy workplace culture brimming with enthusiasm, rainbows, and increasingly obscure perks. But can a company actually require that employees be positive at work?
The National Labor Relations Board has weighed in on this question, and their answer is that you are free to be as grumpy or disagreeable as you please. Or, in other words, your employer can't force you to be happy at your job.
Blend Images via Shutterstock
This is the general idea of the board's ruling, but the question was raised in a much more specific context, in a case brought before the board three years ago by the Communications Workers of America, a union that represents some T-Mobile workers.
In its employee handbook, T-Mobile wrote: "Employees are expected to maintain a positive work environment by communicating in a manner that is conducive to effective working relationships with internal and external customers, clients, coworkers, and management." The union took issue with it because it was so general and could be interpreted by employees to mean that they should not complain about issues at workand impede their right to unionize and advocate for better working conditions.
The NLRB agreed, saying that employees have the right to be unhappy at their jobs and express that. Organizing for better working conditions clearly requires strife and controversy, their ruling says. And the handbook gives no criteria for determining what actions fail to maintain a positive work environment or working relationships.
The CWA has been on a long-running mission to unionize T-Mobile workers, but so far only has two union contracts, according to Bloomberg Businessweek, covering only 30 of its 45,000 employees. So the case needs to be seen in that context: This kind of employee handbook wording may seem innocuous on the part of T-Mobile, but it may be part of its anti-union stance. More recently, this year, the CWA accused T-Mobile of illegally creating a company-run "fake union" in order to hinder the formation of an independent one.
Beyond this specific case, the ruling should be assuring to even white collar professional workers who are not ever likely to unionize. These are the people most likely to work for employers that spend big money on workplace wellness and happiness programs. These kinds of programs can offer decent perks, but it's nice to know that if you're fired for your job for scowling in your cubicle and not attending office happy hours, the nation's arbitrators of employment law might have your back.
This article was written by Jessica Leber from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: I Stopped Complaining for One Month. Here's How It Changed Me
description: I've never been one to "look on the bright side." That's slightly embarrassing to admit, since in the grand scheme of things, I don't have manyif anythings wrong with my life. I'm a healthy 20-something, living and working in New York City, with an awesome family and a bunch of great friends.
Still, a lot of people who have it pretty damn good (like I do) find plenty of things to complain about. Ask any of my acquaintances "How are you?" any given day of the week, and chances are you'll hear one of the classic, knee-jerk responses: "So busy at work." "So exhausted." "Can't wait for this week to be over."
It's almost as if complaining about how tired, busy, stressed, or "over it" we are has become a sign of successful adulthood.
The Dark Side
I'm guilty of seeing the glass half-empty too. After a carefree childhood, I went through high school and college plagued by a vague yet ever-present anxiety. It was never crippling, but it was always there, hijacking my thoughts, causing me to ruminate over what was going wrong in my liferather than what was so incredibly right.
I fell into a habit of calling out whatever was less than perfect. Whether it was a comment from a friend, a traffic jam, or a boring project at work, I would dwell on it. I would worry about the worst that could happen, rather than think about the best outcomes. I'd overthink everything and sweat over what could've gone better.
I'd overthink everything and sweat over what could've gone better.
If something negative happened, no matter how minor, Id almost always talk about it. Outwardly, I stayed relatively upbeat, so I felt OK letting small complaintsugh, I hate the subway; my apartment is so tiny and dark, I can't stand itslip occasionally (or maybe multiple times per day).
Last winter, after hitting a few rough spots in my personal life, including a death in the family and a breakup, my pessimism hit its peak. I came home after a long day at work and running errands all over town to find my powerand heathad gone out.
I sat on my couch in the dark, crying. I was living the life Id dreamed of since I was young: I was a successful editor living in New York. But I was miserable. I knew something had to change.
Getting a GripPensive, but probably not complaining.Ironically, I've done a good amount of research on positive psychology over the past few years for work. Ive read countless studies on the power of positive thinking and gratitude. I've interviewed leading happiness experts like Shawn Achor, Gretchen Rubin, Michelle Gielan, and Gabrielle Bernstein. Ive worked on articles about how positive thinking really can change your life and how your language can help you be happier at work. But I wasn't really compelled to put it into practice.
Until one particular book landed on my desk: Operation Happiness by Kristi Ling. What really struck me was the subtitle: "Why happiness isnt something you find, but something you do."
As I read, all the research fell into place, and it finally clicked: I had the power to improve the way I felt through a few tweaks to my thoughts and words. As Ling writes,
Our thoughts are responsible for the amount of happiness we experience.
Thoughts are not just important; they are the entire foundation of our life and how we live and encounter it. Our thoughts are responsible for every choice we make, everything we create or destroy, and yes, theyre responsible for the amount of happiness we experience.
I realized my constant complaints werent helping me by letting me vent my frustrationsthey were letting me stew in my own pessimistic, pathetic, half-empty pot of negativity. In order to break the habit, not only did I need to stop complaining, but I also needed to proactively replace those thoughts with something positive.
The Experiment
On April 1, I promised myself Id look for the good in any situation I was tempted to complain about. Any time I was going to say or think something negative, Id stop myself and find a constructive counterpoint to bring up instead.
Thanks to Ling and a few other resources (including Greatist's life coach columnist, Susie Moore; Gielan's book, Broadcasting Happiness; and Deborah Heisz's book, Live Happy: Ten Practices for Choosing Joy), I created a few rules to put into action.
1. Focus on what you want to attract.
When you catch yourself thinking about what you dont want (i.e., "I hope this doesn't..."), pause and start again with positive phrases like, "Id like to see," Ling suggests. Even telling myself "This party is actually going to be fun," or "This project is going to turn out great" helped change the way I viewed an entire experience.
2. Stop beating yourself up.
We've all heard how damaging negative self-talk can be, but I never realized how often I was talking sh*t to myself until this experiment. "When you start beating yourself upin your mind or out loudfor anything, squash that negative self-talk," Ling says.
Thinking "God, I look terrible today," is not going to do anyone any good, even if you're only saying it to yourself. I know it's harder to do on certain days when you actually do feel like crap, but thinking about my new Nikes (that I can wear to work!) made me feel much better.
3. Change your thought process.
When you notice you're in a stressful or sad place, Ling suggests asking yourself: Is the way Im thinking right now encouraging or discouraging? In other words, every time you catch yourself beginning to worry, stop and intentionally think about something elsea compliment someone gave you or a pretty view nearby. Just telling myself "things are actually going pretty great right now" was a nice reminder if I was starting to freak out about something small.
The ResultsOne of the few times I wasn't complaining about the snow.Honestly, I was pretty amazed how easily I was able to transform any complaint into a positive. Here are a few examples of how I switched my thought process.
There was a seemingly endless span of cold and rainy days. (And I'll admit it: I'm one of those people whose mood is directly correlated to the weather.) On my way to work, out of habit, I pulled out my phone to complain to a friend and maybe compose an angry tweet. Instead, I took a deep breath and thought about how lucky I was to have a job I lovelet alone be able to walk there.
I accidentally broke my iPhone, shattering the screen beyond repair. I knew I'd have to pay out-of-pocket for a new one. But before I went to the AT&T store, I went a full day without a phone. In the past it would've made me anxious, but taking time away from technology was actually relaxing. I walked to meet someone for coffee, without headphones, taking in sights and sounds I would've skipped over before. And while the process was a hassle, I got a rebate back for my old phone, bringing the total down payment for my new phone to just $20 rather than $100. Score!
After a recent trip, I was tempted to complain about travel to anyone who askedthe long security lines, gross airport terminals, and uncomfortable plane seats. But hey, I could afford to take the trip, I didnt miss any of my flights, and they werent terribly delayed. And most importantly, I got there and back safely.
Let's be honest: Mondays at work aren't pleasant. I'm usually tired, cranky, and way too busy. But when I caught myself spiraling into complaints about how exhausted I was, I'd remind myself that I had a really fun weekend with friendsand that's why I was so tired. Case of the Mondays, cured.
Plus, the more I focused on finding good things, the more I noticed them in actiona stranger helping a mother carry her stroller up the subway, a man giving a homeless man a few dollars. (New Yorkers arent so bad, after all.)
The Takeaway
Its not too far-fetched to say that my month of no complaints changed my lifeI've never felt happier or less anxious. The best part is that it's become a habit to catch myself in a negative thought pattern. Whenever I start to feel a sense of anxiety or worry coming on, I reflexively reroute my mind to a positive, different thought. Doing this has a calming effect on me like no medication or therapy session has ever had.
I'm not saying Im suddenly the most optimistic person in the world. And I still may complain every now and then (especially in winter). I'm also not saying having a positive mindset is going to make you oblivious to stress, sad life events, or even the occasional bad day. Sh*t happens. But believe me, shifting your focus to the goodnot the badcan make it all a little easier to deal with.
This article was written by Locke Hughes from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: John Oliver Calls Out Bullsh*t Scientific Studies, and It Is Everything
description: Were suckers for scientific studies. If researchers find the best time to drink coffee or a concerning link between bacon and stomach cancer, we want to know! But for each useful studythat is, one with a large enough sample size that leads to statistically significant findings and replicable resultsthere is plenty of research that is junk.
John Oliver recently poked fun at these flawed studies (and the weight we give them) on his show Last Week Tonight. If you don't have time to watch the full 20-minute video (though trust us, it's worth it), you can jump to the five best moments:
1:40: There are now so many studies being thrown around, they can seem to contradict one another. In just the last few months, weve seen studies about coffee that claim it may reverse the effects of liver damage, help prevent colon cancer, decrease the risk of endometrial cancer, and increase the risk of miscarriage. Coffee today is like God in the Old Testament: It will either save you or kill you, depending on how much you believe in its magic powers.
4:50: There is no reward for being the second person to discover something in science. Theres no Nobel Prize for fact-checking, and, incidentally, Theres No Nobel Prize for Fact-Checking is a motivational poster in Brian Williamss MSNBC dressing room.
7:38: "Some of this is on us, the viewing audience. We like fun, pop-y science that we can share like gossipand TV producers know it.
14:50: In science, you dont just get to cherry-pick the parts that justify what you were going to do anyway; thats religion.
15:50: Do you love science in all its complexity but wish it could be a little less complex and a lot less scientific? Introducing TODD Talks, where the format of TED Talks meets the intellectual rigor of morning news shows.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Could Baby Steps Be the Best Global Climate Strategy?
description: Could baby steps be the best way to make international progress on slashing greenhouse gas emissions instead of trying to strike a bold and grand bargain among world powers?
A paper published Monday in the journal Nature Climate Change concludes that the answer to that questions is: Yes.U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry signs the Paris Climate Agreement in April.
Credit: United Nations/flickr
So far, international cooperation on climate change has come largely through voluntary actions agreed to during negotiations at summits in Paris, Kyoto and Copenhagen. The Paris pact will keep tabs on each countrys compliance mostly by reviewing the progress of emissions cuts, while the other pacts resulted in few emissions reductions.
Already, temperatures have increased 1C over the last 120 years, and pledges that formed the foundation of the Paris Climate Agreement
signed by more than 170 countries last month
arent enough to keep the globe from warming past 2C. Experts expect that level of warming will bring about deadly heat waves, rising seas and disease epidemics.
{related}
The key to significant climate action that could help curb warming is building trust among countries, and that happens by taking small steps toward deeper emissions cuts, according to the paper.
I can appreciate that people want bold bargains with ambitious goals, said paper co-author David Victor, a professor of global policy and strategy at UC-San Diego. The problem is that international cooperation is mainly a volunteer activity. Countries can pick and choose which agreements they want to join. Thats why smaller steps are needed to make sure that agreements dont get wildly disconnected from what governments are willing and able to implement.
One of the biggest challenges facing international climate cooperation is that its easy for countries to get a free ride, according to the paper, which was co-authored by Princeton University international affairs professor Robert Keohane. Pollution doesnt respect international boundaries as it mixes in the atmosphere, tempting some countries to benefit from the cleaner air without taking on the high costs of cutting carbon pollution themselves.UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon addresses the opening session of the French Parliament during the Paris climate negotiations in December.
Credit: United Nations/flickr
The problem of free-riding is worsened by the fact that leaders of states think that cutting emissions will make energy more expensive, adversely affecting national economic competitiveness, the paper says. It adds that most countries have strong incentives to avoid acting alone in cutting emissions while they wait for others especially the U.S. and China, the worlds biggest carbon polluters to take action.
One way to create a sense of trust and encourage cooperation among countries is for them to bring together their best researchers and engineers to develop new low-carbon technology, the the authors write.
Whats more, most of the emissions reductions needed to keep global warming from spiraling out of control will be brought about by technological advancements not a grand international emissions reduction agreement alone, the paper says.
Its not possible to radically decarbonize the global economy absent big changes in technology, Victor said. The other important idea here is that as new technologies are invented and tested, they will make it easier for the public to get on board with stricter climate policy. As they learn about what it will really cost to make deep cuts in emissions and learn that doing that is feasible much of the opposition to serious climate policy will wane.
Even in the best of times, international cooperation is a slow process.
Failure to recognize that has led to 25 years of diplomatic efforts until Paris that have achieved little, Victor said. We dont have time to waste another 25 years.
The Copenhagen climate negotiations in 2009 resulted in very little international climate action.
Credit: United Nations/flickr
Experts unaffiliated with the paper were mixed on the benefits of a small-steps strategy.
Stacy VanDeveer, a political science professor at the University of New Hampshire, said he agrees that grand bargains on climate are mostly fantasy.
Indeed, incremental progress is the most likely path, he said. But I would add that incremental steps will only make serious progress toward addressing both the causes of climate change and the need for adaptation if the pace of incrementalism accelerates.
VanDeveer said its important to remember that broad global change is made locally, too, adding that climate pledges and reviews of progress on emissions reductions goals must occur at the national and city levels every five to 10 years.
Activists must focus on national governments, all of them cities, firms and so on, he said.
University of Toronto political science professor Matthew Hoffman said small steps on climate at the international level can be part of a major global change in attitudes toward global warming.
Given what weve seen in Paris, an incremental approach to a global agreement is compatible with national and subnational governments pushing for radical action, Hoffman said. In fact, the further that governments push on their national plans and policies, the easier further global cooperation will be.
Robert Stavins, a Harvard University economics professor unaffiliated with the paper, said he agrees with the papers thrust that incremental and sometimes decentralized steps are necessary to build trust and increase climate ambition among countries.
The pledge and review system of the Paris Agreement is one step along this path, Stavins said.
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: How To Create A Human-Centered Approach To Corporate Giving
description: Companies with paid volunteer time off struggle with underutilization: no one is actually taking time off to volunteer. Similarly, employers that offer "dollars for doers" or corporate matching programs also report less than stellar participation. Many companies have tried to make it easier to donate at work, offering things like payroll deductions for donations, yet they continue to struggle with widespread adoption.
There is a mystery here: Research shows that employees consistently ask for opportunities to give back, yet they are not taking advantage of donation and volunteer opportunities when offered. So what is going on?
Background: Explaining the employee adoption gap in corporate giving activities
Corporate giving programsoften part of broader Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and employee engagement strategiesare designed to benefit the company in a way that maximizes impact and reduces expense. While almost all companies intuitively believe that CSR is good for the business, calculating the ROI of these programs is incredibly challenging. As a result, companies tend to implement programs in ways that are the easiest and most economical to manage and measure, thereby entrenching CSR as a centralized function with very limited budget.
The mistaken belief that companies have is that people will volunteer and donate when given the opportunity, so the company should standardize the process for volunteering and donating as much as possible to cut costs and offer programs that are easiest to manage. But this does not work. Ask CSR professionals what the hardest part of their job is, and they will tell you it's trying to convince enough people to participate in their programs, and then share stories and metrics. This is because companies think that all giving activities are equal, so the easier it is to offer any opportunity, the betterand this is exactly why it's not working.
This is a classic example of the tension between employees and employers: Employees donate for deeply personal, often subconscious, reasons. On the other side, their employers are likely participating for largely commercial reasons. Beyond donations, people also give back through volunteering, and their motivations for giving their time are often more complex than donating dollars, involving deep social ties and personal relationships. Employers partially recognize this and attempt to use volunteering as a tool to generating happier and healthier employees. However, companies miss the boat by trying to capture the benefits of volunteering without understanding why their employees might actually want to volunteer on behalf of their company in the first place.
The tension behind employer and employee giving is further exaggerated by a company's own processes. Because a company can only benefit from CSR if it can measure and report on its and its employees' giving activities, it has even more incentives to standardize giving. This is done in a variety of ways, including trying to run more "efficient" day of giving campaigns, implementing technology platforms that limit volunteering and donations to pre-vetted causes, or launching incentive programs that give "dollars to doers" if done with verified organizations. However, the more a company standardizes its giving, the less giving occurs.
The Challenge: Shifting from short-term measurement to long-term investing
"We are finding out quite rapidly that to be successful long term we have to ask: what do we actually give to society to make it better? We've made it clear to the organization that it's our business model, starting from the top."
Paul Polman, CEO of Unilever
Corporate giving programs suffer from the same problems that affect their nonprofit partners: not understanding their "customers" and measuring the wrong thing on account of short-term thinking. The reality is that the benefits of CSR are recognized in the long-term, yet markets, corporate boards, and executives mandate short-term evaluation.
In lieu of measuring the true, long-terms benefits of these programs, CSR leaders are instead forced to measure things like the amount of money donated and the number of hours volunteered, the same forces that doom companies by forcing them to focus too much on short-term earnings. In fact, measurement is such a critical part of CSR that it prohibits its practitioners from actually making an impact. Nonprofits and corporations frequently complain that reporting on dollars and hours is so challenging, most don't do it, or spend most of their time trying to get to accurate numbers instead of creating an impact. According to research from McKinsey: "Traditional corporate social responsibility is failing to deliver, for both companies and society. Executives need a new approach to engaging the external environment."
The Opportunity: Maximizing engagement by designing giving programs that focus on employee preferences
Study after study show that CSR is good for the bottom line, has a material impact, and that employee giving programs can create . In fact, more CEOs than ever before have reported that they will be increasing CSR investments in the coming year. As such, programs should be designed to maximize engagement, not to simplify reporting and management. A report from Deloitte's monitor group highlights that doing so can engage and develop your purpose-driven professionals.
Simply put, when employees give, and truly feel empowered to give by their company, they build loyalty and engagement with their company. The more employees who give, and the more that each employee gives, the better for the world and for the bottom line.
This is why we see rapid adoption of programs that empower employees to give the way they want to give.
Focus on empowering employees
As research shows, employees that give more while being supported by their company become more engaged and more loyal. Simply put, employees are more likely to give even more when they decide how and when their time and dollars are given. As such, if companies want to engage their employees with giving campaigns, the best thing to do is let employees decide where they volunteer and where they give their money.
Companies can take it a step farther to make it a cultural approach by rewarding time off to actually engage in these causes. Instead of viewing time spent on social causes as time of work, companiesand the managers withinshould recognize that giving activities are powerful business tools to increase engagement, provide stretch learning experiences, develop leadership skills, improve products, develop partnerships, and foster innovation. Simply put, managers should proactively encourage their employees to spend time on social good activities in the same way they might encourage their team to go to a conference, take an online course, or participate in training.
This really is a win-win. Not only does a human centered design approach to giving increase engagement and bottom-line benefits, but it's also easier to manage, requiring less centralized program management when the right tools and processes are used.
Making Headway: Tips to shift your organization
Shifting your organization's mindset is not an easy task, but there is one thing going in your favor: you don't have to change employee behavior, you just have to appeal to them in the right wayremember, the majority are already interested in giving. The biggest challenge is not trying to change hundreds or thousands of employees' actions, it's simply aligning your company's leadership to believe in this approach. Here are 8 tips to help you do exactly that:
1: Build the business case
There are at least seven research-backed reasons that companies should engage in more social good activities, and five science-backed reasons why giving is good for people. Choose the imperative that is most likely to appeal to your company's management, build a business case, and earn a budget. Reviewing Deloitte's research on social impact corporate archetypes can further help you establish a case.
2: Get executive support
One of the most important elements of any social responsibility program is executive support, and this is as true for giving as it is for volunteering. Not only should executives promote these programs, but they should actively participate in them whenever possible. Lastly, they should personally and publicly recognize top contributors. Salesforce's Mark Benioff provides an excellent example of this, and is even known for stopping employees in the hall to show their latest status of volunteer hours. And once enough hours are volunteered, Salesforce gives the employees $1,000 to donate to the cause of their choice.
3. Engage mid-level managers
Regardless of your company's policies, mid-level managers are a key stakeholder that needs to be engaged. They'll feel the true impact of people engaging in social good activities, and usually not in a good way as this audience is most likely to feel the pains of a loss of hours. To overcome this, managers should be encouraged to promote giving activities, celebrated when they do it, and be consistently educated on the long-term benefits of engaging their team and individual employees in social good activities. Most importantly, company leaders should seek to engage this population in social good activities so that they can see the benefits first-hand.
4: Be authentic
The bigger the company, the more likely it is to have skeptical employees. It's important that companies be open and honest about the strategic intent of their social responsibility programs. MySkills4Afrika, a program by Microsoft, places Microsoft volunteers across Africa to support startups, schools, governments, nonprofits, and even Microsoft partners with skill and capacity building efforts. Microsoft is honest that this program has a triple-bottom line: benefiting social causes, employee desires, and also its own business.
5: Provide your employees with the right tools
People will leverage their volunteering and giving activities for different reasons, and they won't use tools that are hard to find or complex. At a minimum, the technology powering your giving and volunteerism programs should be simple to use and flexible so that every employee can give money and time the way they want, and to the causes they want.
6: Think transformationally, not transactionally
Processing a match and cutting a check? That's transactional. Showing people the true impact of their work and getting them to reflect on what they've learned? That's transformational. As Chris Jarvis of Realized Worth shares, "You know that quote 'Give a man a fish and you feed him for a day; teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime.' It's the same with transactional and transformational giving. Ask employees to give and you'll see a handful of one-off transactions, but empower employees to learn about, connect with and give to the causes that interest them, and you'll have yourself a team of employees championing your company's community involvement and cause initiatives." By designing programs that truly empower employees, you will inspire people to reach their full potential, creating more meaningful experiences that also benefit the company.
7: Go all-in on communication
All too often, companies introduce programs only to find that employees aren't aware they exist. A well-planned communication strategy that involves executives and enthusiastic employees from all levels will massively increase awareness of your company's programs. The right tool will also ensure that you capture the necessary stories and triple-bottom-line impact data to maintain top-down marketing and PR efforts, while also giving you plenty of content for social media.
8: Close the feedback loop
One of the biggest changes to fully embrace a HCD approach to corporate giving is the feedback loop. For their own benefits, companies typically will brag about the hours and dollars they gave, rather than hero the employees that actually made those donations. To fully embrace these programs, companies must show that the giving efforts actually made an impact by showing personal stories, and highlight the giver as the hero, not the company. According to Tim Mohin, CSR leader at AMD, "While it may be more difficult, CSR Leaders are far better off measuring results than activities. When it comes to volunteerism and philanthropy, the results we need to measure are employee engagement and the benefits the company provides to communities."
With all the buzz around the benefits of corporate responsibility, it's easy to understand why companies have implemented programs without enough due processjust like nonprofits are notorious for not operating like businesses, businesses are notorious for not factoring in the human-elements of their products and people. However, new research, data, and case studies now prove the business value of human centered initiatives the benefits their own businesses, their people, and the world at large.
Mark Horoszowski is co-founder and CEO of MovingWorlds.org, a global platform that helps people volunteer their expertise with social impact organizations around the world.
Ty Walrod is the co-founder and CEO of Bright Funds, a giving, matching, and volunteering program He previously worked for Deloitte, with the partnership's venture capital, private equity and technology clients.
This article was written by Ty Walrod and Mark Horoszowski from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Florida's Coral Reefs Are Dissolving Much Sooner Than Expected
description: Some of the worst effects of climate change on coral reefs weren't supposed to happen for decadesand some researchers thought they wouldn't happen until the end of the century. But a new study shows that ocean acidificationcaused by excess CO2 in the airis already dissolving coral now.
In the study, researchers looked at two years of data from seven points around reefs in the Florida Keys. In some places, the reefs were dissolving more quickly than they were rebuilding, a process called net erosion.
In the past, studies were either done in the labwhere it's impossible to recreate the complex environment of an actual reefor over very short periods, often just a week long, and not looking at variations by season. So when past estimates suggested that reefs wouldn't start disintegrating until the middle or end of the century, they weren't based on full data.
Flickr user Tom Bayly
This doesn't mean that coral reefs are going to immediately disappear, but it's a wakeup call.
"The important message is first that these measurements are really sensitive, and they're a leading indicatorthey're telling us the direction of a trend," says Chris Langdon, chair of the University of Miami's department of marine biology and ecology and lead author of the study. "It's very early onlike the patient's only lost a few pounds so far, and if we fix the diet or fix the disease, they can easily recover. But if we don't do anything, which is sort of what's happening, it's only going to get worse."
It's possible that the situation now is already worse than when the researchers first collected data, in 2009 and 2010. Since then, during the two hottest years on record2014 and 2015extensive bleaching killed portions of the reef, making it even more susceptible to dissolution. As the reef dies, it loses a protective layer of tissue, and other tiny organisms can drill into coral skeletons, so they fall apart faster.
While it's possible, in theory, to temporarily reverse ocean acidification around a reef by dumping a basic solution in the water, it's not exactly feasible on the scale of the ocean (and large-scale planetary engineering may be inadvisable anyway).
"The only solution is really reducing CO2 emissions," Langdon says. "Facing up to that and actually accomplishing something are going to take a long time. The sooner we start, the less CO2 continues to build up in the atmosphere, the easier it's going to be to reverse things."
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Brilliant Toy Turns Lego Bricks Into A Tool For Learning Braille
description: A new tool for teaching kids the Braille alphabet is inspired by a simple fact: A Lego-like toy brick, with two rows of three dots, is arranged exactly like a Braille cell. Designers realized that by tweaking the toys and removing some of the bumps, they could create a full alphabet.
It's designed both for blind children and the kids around them. "It's a toy, and toys attracts kids no matter if they are blind or not," says Felipe Luchi, chief creative officer at Lew'Lara\TBWA, the Brazil-based creative agency that designed Braille Bricks. "So it's very inclusive. Blind kids can teach their families and friends the Braille language while playing."
It's also easier to use than traditional methods of learning Braille. "It's cheaper than Braille type machines, and if you make a mistake you can change the wrong letter for the right one instead of retyping it from the beginning," he says. "It's not a substitute for the machines but a playful learning accessory." For children in poorer countries whose families can't afford a Braille typewriter, it also could be an accessible option.(Your browser doesn't support iframe)The designers made 300 full kits, with letters, numbers, and accents, for students at the Dorina Nowill Foundation for the Blind in So Paulo, Brazil. For the first batch, they just chopped up existing toys. "We produced it cutting and reshaping every single brick, one by one," says Luchi. "We are waiting for a brand to embrace and produce it on industrial scale."
Though they sent the idea to Lego, the company rejected it. So now they've released the design under a Creative Commons license, and they're hoping a manufactureror even someone who wants to run a Kickstarter campaignwill pick it up. "We decided to make it available to any toy brand interested in helping blind kids with no need to pay for the rights," he says. "Even Lego, if they change their minds ... Sometimes all a brand needs is some push from society."
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The Most And Least Resilient Countries In The World
description: Goods stuck at a port because bribes need paying. A natural disaster that wipes out a year's worth of crops. Roads that become impassable when it rains too much. Anything from small snafus to huge disasters can stop a country's infrastructure and economy. But the question is how quickly its economy can bounce back to normal so its companies can function and it can keep providing for its citizens.
The FM Global Resilience Index ranks and scores countries across nine factors, illuminating their supply chain resilience, and, really, resilience in general. Across political risk, exposure to natural hazards, and infrastructure quality, the index quantifies a nation's ability to withstand a disruption and bounce back, so products can get to where they need to go.
The latest version of the ranking, which comes from a Rhode Island-based insurance company, has Switzerland in first place, followed by Norway, with Ireland, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, the central United States, Canada, Australia, and Denmark counting out the top 10 places. These are places where companies can be confident of efficiently running their supply chains.
The index praises Switzerland's infrastructure (the trains always run on time!), its local suppliers, and its resistance to oil shocks and shortages. FM Global measures this by looking at how efficiently countries use oil, dividing GDP by oil consumption.
At the other end of the scale is Venezuela, which comes last in the list of 130 countries. In contrast to Switzerland, it is susceptible to earthquakes and tornadoes, plagued by corruption, and has poor roads and trains. "A major hurdle facing many countries in the bottom 10 is simply geophysical location. Countries in the Caribbean and Central America are exposed heavily to the twin natural hazards of wind and earthquake," the report says.
Also bad places to get supplies from, according to the index, are the Dominican Republic, the Kyrgyz Republic, Nicaragua, Mauritania, Ukraine, Egypt, Algeria, Jamaica, and Honduras.
FM Global argues that companies often seek out cost advantages at the expense of supply chain security. The index aims to give a deeper sense of "the drivers of resilience," while "underlining the strategic nature of supply chain risk management."
The United States is split into three separate regions: East, Central, and West. The Central area is seen as most resilient (7th place), followed by the East (11th) and West (21st place). Armenia (52nd place) and Malawi (84th) both rose compared to last year's index. Cameroon (103rd) and Morocco (89th) both fell. Relative efficiency in using energy was a key reason for countries rising and falling this year.
See the full 2016 ranking here.
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Migrants Keep Eating Their Native Cuisine, Even If It Means They Starve
description: When people move to a new region or country, they take their cuisine with them. If this wasn't the case, New York wouldn't have pizza and Birmingham in the U.K. wouldn't have some of the best curry in the world. But if migrant workers stick to their native cuisine then they can end up poorer, or even malnourished, paying for expensive imported foods.
A new paper from MIT professor David Atkin looks at this problem, finding that migrants in India tend to pay more for their home region's cuisine and that they consume relatively fewer calories per rupee of money that they spend on food.
At the heart of the study is what Atkin calls a "caloric tax," which is the drop in calories in a migrant's diet due to higher-priced ingredients. In the worst cases, where a husband and wife have migrated together, for instance, caloric tax can be as high as 7.2%. If someone is already on the borderline of malnourishment, this is enough to send them over the edge.
Flickr user Quinn Dombrowski
The study is based on figures from the Indian National Sample Surveys of 1983 and 1987-88. These tally the purchases of 169 food groups by 125,000 households. " This happens to be a good time period to study, thanks to very bad conditions, diet-wise. "Childhood malnutrition rates were above 50%, and 64% of households consumed fewer calories than the nutritional adequacy requirements used to determine India's poverty line," writes Atkin.
One interesting cause is the recipes themselves. You might be thinking in terms of exotic imports. Someone from the U.S., living in the U.K., might buy expensive imported Kraft Mac & Cheese because it reminds them of home. That's not what we're talking about here.
For instance, rice and wheat are available in most areas, and account for 66% of all calories eaten during the sample period. But the prices of each vary between regions. Sometimes rice is more expensive, sometimes wheat. Dishes from areas with cheaper rice use more of it. When people move to a region where rice is relatively expensive, they will still use their familiar recipe, increasing the price of even a basic dish. If they were to adapt to local foods, then they would find the new cuisine better designed to take advantage of cheaper local ingredients.
These food preferences can have even more radical effects. Atkin concludes his paper with an example from Africa, where "white maize is greatly preferred to yellow maize" in much of the continent. However, food aid programs almost always ship in imported yellow maize. "Programs that provide cheap yellow corn to hungry communities," writes Atkin, "or try to reduce vitamin A deficiency through wider availability of yellow maize are less effective in contexts where there are cultural preferences for white maize."
There aren't many answers here. In terms of giving food aid, the foods brought should be targeted to the preferences of the people most vulnerable to malnutrition, or food vouchers can be used to offer them choice. But migrant workers outside of the places served by aid are often on their own.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The Best Exercises You Can Legit Do at Your Desk
description: By now you've likely heard a thing or two about the downsides of a desk job. But we get it: Not everyone can have a standing desk or squeeze in a bodyweight workout every day.
That's where this desk exercise routine comes in. Think of it as a happy medium between sitting for eight hours and hitting the gym when you just. don't. have. time. We tapped Lauren Williams, certified trainer at Tone House in New York City, to come up with a creative workout that will get the blood flowingwithout making you sweaty.
So throw off your jacket and get started with the moves below.How to use this list:
Do each exercise in order for the indicated number of reps and sets. Do the routine dailyideally right around that 3 p.m. slumpor as a recovery workout after a tough day.1. Seated Desk Child's Pose Stretch
Sit tall with abs pulled in. With chair 1 to 2 feet away from desk, hinge forward at waist and place both hands on the desk, allowing head to fall between hands. Slowly walk both hands to right, so you feel a stretch along left side. Hold for 15 to 30 seconds, then repeat on the other side. Do 2 to 3 reps on each side.2. Seated Neck Stretch
Sit tall with abs pulled in. Turn head to right and then tilt chin down. Use right hand to gently pull head toward armpit (as if you're sniffingjust to check!) to increase stretch. Hold for 15 to 30 seconds and repeat on the other side. Do 2 to 3 reps on each side.3. Seated Spinal Twist
Sit tall with abs pulled in, both feet parallel on floor. Place right hand on back base of chair (behind butt) and left hand on outer right thigh. With shoulders pressed down, breathe in. As you exhale, twist upper body right, looking over right shoulder. (Do not twist with lower back. If you feel any pain in your low back, stop.) Hold for 3 to 5 seconds then repeat on the other side. Continue to rotate slowly for 10 to 15 reps.4. Desk Shoulder and Hamstring Stretch
Stand up and push chair away. Standing 2 to 3 feet away from desk, hinge forward at hip and place outstretched hands on desk. Keep spine and legs perfectly straight so you feel the stretch in hamstrings. With hands on desk, pull shoulders down and away from desk (you should feel your lats engagethose are the muscles in your back that help you do a pull-up). Hold 15 to 30 seconds. Do 2 to 3 reps.5. External Rotation
Bring your chair back and sit tall with arms at sides, palms facing torso, abs pulled in. Imagine a string pulling head toward ceiling and fingertips toward floor, stretching body in opposite directions. Rotate arms so palms face away from body, then rotate inward so palms face body again. Continue to rotate, holding 2 to 3 seconds in each position. Do 10 to 15 reps.6. Chest Opener
Stand tall with core braced. Place both hands behind head with fingers interlaced and lean back, arching upper back. The goal is to open chest and stretch pectorals (no backbend necessary). Hold for 15 to 30 seconds. Do 2 to 3 reps.7. Chair Dips
Sit on edge of chair and place hands on either side of seat so fingers can wrap edges. Lift butt off seat and walk feet out 2 to 3 steps, so knees remain bent and butt is about 6 inches from the seat. Engage core and lower by bending elbows and keeping arms close to torso (no elbow wings at your sides). Straighten arms to return to start. Do 3 sets of 10 to 15 reps.8. Toe Raises With Chair
Stand behind chair and place both hands lightly on chair back. Press shoulders down, engage core, and rise onto balls of feet, squeezing butt and legs as you hold at the top for 3 to 5 seconds. Do 3 sets of 15 to 20 reps.9. Toe Raise to Ballet Squat
From the same position behind your chair, rise onto balls of feet. Send hips back and bend knees as you come into a ballet squat. (No need to send knees out to sides. It's a squat, not a pli). Try to bend knees to 90 degrees while keeping back straight and chest up. Do 3 sets of 10 to 15 reps.10. Desk Push-Up
With chair out of the way, stand 2 feet away from the desk. (Don't move too far; you want wrists to be in line with shoulders.) Lean forward and place both hands on the edge of the desk, so body is on an angle. Perform a push-up by bending elbows and lowering chest toward desk, keeping elbows close to torso. Do 3 sets of 10 to 15 reps.
Make it harder: Hold the seat of your chair to do push-ups. To make it even more difficult (and risk weird looks from coworkers), place feet on seat of chair and hands on ground, performing a foot-elevated push-up.11. Chair Squat
Stand in front of chair with core engaged. Perform a squat by sending hips back and bending knees to lower toward chair. Hold arms extended at chest height. Tap butt to chair (don't actually sit down!), then stand and squeeze glutes at top. Do 3 sets of 10 to 15 reps.12. Rotating Lunge
Stand with core engaged and feet wider than hip width. Drop into a lunge by rotating torso to the left, pivoting on toes, and bending left knee and right knee behind you. In one smooth movement, return to stand at center, then rotate to right and repeat lunge on the other side. Do 3 sets of 10 to 15 reps.
Special thanks to Tone House coach Lauren Williams, who created this workout and modeled it for us.
This article was written by AMY EISINGER from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Against Gun Violence? Then Get Your Money Out Of Gun Stocks With This Easy Tool
description: After each horrific mass shooting that happens all too frequently, many Americans turn to social media to decry the nation's lax gun regulations and the NRA's influence on the political process. Next time you feel this way, do the minimum amount you should be doing to make sure you aren't complicit: Make sure your own money isn't invested in the gun industry.
A new campaign and website called Goodbye Gun Stocks makes it easy to make sure that your retirement funds and investment portfolios don't contain stocks from gun and ammo manufacturers and retailers. It covers more than 12,000 stock funds (and Thrifty Savings Plans for federal employees) based on SEC data, which amounts to $5.9 trillion in investments. Of those assets, $17.3 billion is invested in the consumer gun industryor 35% of U.S. stock funds. The popular Vanguard funds, for example, hold $5.9 billion in these stocks, the site says.
The site was created by Keywon Chung and Michael Shilman, the designers behind the investment app Hello Money, in collaboration with New Yorkers Against Gun Violence. Type in the name of an investment fund, and it will show the percentage invested in nine public gun-associated companies. If you type in your specific value invested, it personalizes the results. It will also suggest alternative funds that are similar, with on par or better performance, that have noor at least fewergun stocks. It allows side-by-side comparisons of different funds to make it simple to reduce gun exposure.(Your browser doesn't support iframe)Not everyone will agree with the stocks included as "gun stocks," which is why the site allows people to differentiate between gun makers and gun retailers. Smith & Wesson, which makes weapons, and Olin, which makes ammunition, are clearly gun companies. The retailers side of the equation includes companies like Walmartwhich though it is the largest seller of guns and ammo in the entire country (about half of its stores sell them) is not primarily in the gun business. Other retailers include the chains Dick's Sporting Goods and Cabala's.
Despite the pressure the Obama administration has tried to put on the industryor perhaps because of itguns have been a great investment in the last few years. Sales are up, and since 2012 when the Sandy Hook mass shooting happened, gun maker stocks have done well. Smith & Wesson is up about 320%. And divesting isn't always easyPresident Obama's pension fund even owns gun stock.
Goodbye Guns is an experiment that the creators say will be available for 30 days. Another site to check is Unload Your 401K, which lets you enter your 401K provider and makes an educated guess as to whether your savings contain gun stocks.
All Images: courtesy Goodbye Gun Stocks
This article was written by Jessica Leber from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: At This Free Food Festival, All The Ingredients Are Food Waste
description: At the Feeding the 5000 food festival in New York City, the first thing people walking by may notice is that all the food is free. It isn't obvious, though, that all the offerings are made from food waste.
A torte is made with trimmings and peelings from a food distributor; a "quick pickle salad" is made with surplus greens and vegetables. Dan Barber, head chef and co-owner of Manhattan's Michelin-starred Blue Hill, will offer a limited number of cookies made with the almond flour left over when manufacturers make almond oil. Other chefs will also offer cooking demonstrations with food that might otherwise be thrown out.
"I like the idea of changing people's habits and minds through pleasure and hedonism and enjoyment," says Barber. "One of the great things about food waste is that if you do it rightin the sense that you talk about it in this context, you avoid the pitfalls of shame on you for leaving food on your plate, or shame on you for ordering that because it's so wasteful. Instead, you encourage changes in behavior because they're simply pleasurable."
Feedback, an environmental organization focused on ending food waste, has hosted similar day-long festivals in Paris, Amsterdam, and other cities in Europe and Australia. They wanted to bring the idea to New York and Washington, D.C., to draw attention to food waste in the U.S.which leads the world in food waste. The U.S. spends $218 billion a year, and produces massive amounts of climate pollution, growing food that ends up in the trash.
Barber sees the festival as a way to showcase something that chefs already tend to do more than home cooks: making use of leftover scraps. "It's in our DNA to do that," he says. At Blue Hill, a ravioli special of braised lamb and vegetables is made with lamb leftover from the last evening's service and scrap vegetables. It isn't called "wasted" ravioli, and it goes for $70. But technically, someone might see the ingredients as waste.
"Dishes that speak to bringing the pieces together of what we might consider waste, like offcuts of meat or discarded vegetables, are really the basis of all the great cuisines of the world," says Barber. "That's part of a food culture that's really rich and interconnected. It seems to me like we have a lot of work to do. But the way to do it is through these kinds of things, which really are very enjoyable."
The festival will be on May 10 at Union Square Park in Manhattan, and May 18 in D.C.
All Photos: via Feeding the 5000
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: At This Free Food Festival, All The Ingredients Are Food Waste
description: At the Feeding the 5000 food festival in New York City, the first thing people walking by may notice is that all the food is free. It isn't obvious, though, that all the offerings are made from food waste.
A torte is made with trimmings and peelings from a food distributor; a "quick pickle salad" is made with surplus greens and vegetables. Dan Barber, head chef and co-owner of Manhattan's Michelin-starred Blue Hill, will offer a limited number of cookies made with the almond flour left over when manufacturers make almond oil. Other chefs will also offer cooking demonstrations with food that might otherwise be thrown out.
"I like the idea of changing people's habits and minds through pleasure and hedonism and enjoyment," says Barber. "One of the great things about food waste is that if you do it rightin the sense that you talk about it in this context, you avoid the pitfalls of shame on you for leaving food on your plate, or shame on you for ordering that because it's so wasteful. Instead, you encourage changes in behavior because they're simply pleasurable."
Feedback, an environmental organization focused on ending food waste, has hosted similar day-long festivals in Paris, Amsterdam, and other cities in Europe and Australia. They wanted to bring the idea to New York and Washington, D.C., to draw attention to food waste in the U.S.which leads the world in food waste. The U.S. spends $218 billion a year, and produces massive amounts of climate pollution, growing food that ends up in the trash.
Barber sees the festival as a way to showcase something that chefs already tend to do more than home cooks: making use of leftover scraps. "It's in our DNA to do that," he says. At Blue Hill, a ravioli special of braised lamb and vegetables is made with lamb leftover from the last evening's service and scrap vegetables. It isn't called "wasted" ravioli, and it goes for $70. But technically, someone might see the ingredients as waste.
"Dishes that speak to bringing the pieces together of what we might consider waste, like offcuts of meat or discarded vegetables, are really the basis of all the great cuisines of the world," says Barber. "That's part of a food culture that's really rich and interconnected. It seems to me like we have a lot of work to do. But the way to do it is through these kinds of things, which really are very enjoyable."
The festival will be on May 10 at Union Square Park in Manhattan, and May 18 in D.C.
All Photos: via Feeding the 5000
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: At This Free Food Festival, All The Ingredients Are Food Waste
description: At the Feeding the 5000 food festival in New York City, the first thing people walking by may notice is that all the food is free. It isn't obvious, though, that all the offerings are made from food waste.
A torte is made with trimmings and peelings from a food distributor; a "quick pickle salad" is made with surplus greens and vegetables. Dan Barber, head chef and co-owner of Manhattan's Michelin-starred Blue Hill, will offer a limited number of cookies made with the almond flour left over when manufacturers make almond oil. Other chefs will also offer cooking demonstrations with food that might otherwise be thrown out.
"I like the idea of changing people's habits and minds through pleasure and hedonism and enjoyment," says Barber. "One of the great things about food waste is that if you do it rightin the sense that you talk about it in this context, you avoid the pitfalls of shame on you for leaving food on your plate, or shame on you for ordering that because it's so wasteful. Instead, you encourage changes in behavior because they're simply pleasurable."
Feedback, an environmental organization focused on ending food waste, has hosted similar day-long festivals in Paris, Amsterdam, and other cities in Europe and Australia. They wanted to bring the idea to New York and Washington, D.C., to draw attention to food waste in the U.S.which leads the world in food waste. The U.S. spends $218 billion a year, and produces massive amounts of climate pollution, growing food that ends up in the trash.
Barber sees the festival as a way to showcase something that chefs already tend to do more than home cooks: making use of leftover scraps. "It's in our DNA to do that," he says. At Blue Hill, a ravioli special of braised lamb and vegetables is made with lamb leftover from the last evening's service and scrap vegetables. It isn't called "wasted" ravioli, and it goes for $70. But technically, someone might see the ingredients as waste.
"Dishes that speak to bringing the pieces together of what we might consider waste, like offcuts of meat or discarded vegetables, are really the basis of all the great cuisines of the world," says Barber. "That's part of a food culture that's really rich and interconnected. It seems to me like we have a lot of work to do. But the way to do it is through these kinds of things, which really are very enjoyable."
The festival will be on May 10 at Union Square Park in Manhattan, and May 18 in D.C.
All Photos: via Feeding the 5000
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Have We Reached Peak Cruelty? How Animals' Lives Will Change In The Next 5 Years
description: It's been a big year for animals in the media.
Last summer's multi-platform firestorm over the killing of Zimbabwe's most famous lion, Cecil, was followed by fresh rounds of headlines when the airlines lined up to announce wildlife trophy bans. In January, the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey circus company announced it would step up the retirement date of its elephant performers, and in March, after three years of public outcry and media coverage initiated by the doc Blackfish, SeaWorld gave up spinning its thorny business model and announced it would end captive orca breeding and orca shows. And it wasn't just glamorous animals earning media: The humble chicken scored premium airtime on HBO (John Oliver devoted one of his long-form segments to Big Poultry) and column inches in the New York Times (op-ed champion of human rights Nicholas Kristof has addressed the plight of America's most eaten, and beaten down, bird twice over the last year).
While the media has long loved animals and the eyeballs they attract, does the volume and nature of the coverage indicate a larger societal shift on animal welfare issues? Humane Society of the United States president and CEO Wayne Pacelle makes that very case in his new book, The Humane Economy. In fact, Pacelle writes, "We are in the midst of an epic political, cultural, and economic realignment in the treatment of animals."
Over the course of the book, Pacelle, a 22-year veteran of the HSUS and its chief executive for 11 years, chronicles the innovations, policies, and public actions that are changing the fate of animals on farms, in labs, in entertainment, in the wild, and in our homes. "At the base of it all," says Pacelle, "is the emerging consciousness of the American public," driven, he says, by a dawning understanding of the cognitive and behavioral capacity of animals, and increased awareness of the misery visited upon them by humans.
Andrea Izzotti via Shutterstock
There was no single watershed moment and no single driving force that's brought us to this apparent inflection point; rather, "change is coming through many channels," he says. "All these institutionsCongress, state legislatures, corporations, even courtsare all connected to public sentiment. That's why you're seeing change on so many different issues through so many different channels. There is an ensemble cast of characters driving the humane economyscientists, undercover investigators, startup entrepreneursall of these are playing a part."
That said, as this site has established, corporations are our dominant actors, so large-scale change tends to be driven by businesses acting on their core instinctto grow. And Pacelle does a particularly good job of emphasizing this point, drawing a line between our personal and corporate self-interest and animal welfare. While the book isn't lacking moral persuasion, Pacelle argues, convincingly, that it's good business to be good, or at least not so unrelentingly awful, to animals. "Adhering to an animal protection ethic has previously been viewed as costly and burdensome," says Pacelle. "Now an animal protection ethic built into a business model is an opportunity."
The book offers numerous examples of companies and innovators who have shifted animal policies and profited. He cites the runaway success of PetSmart in the wake of its pivot from pet seller (and client of puppy mills) to adoption centerwhen BC Partners acquired the company for $8.7 billion in 2014, it was the largest private equity deal that year (and things seem to be going well since).
Mike Price via Shutterstock
Pacelle also applies that animal arithmetic to wildlife. According to a report cited in the book, a single dead elephant's tusks are valued at roughly $21,000; the estimated value of a living elephantcalculated in tourism and associated spending is $1,607,624 over the course its life. He also calculates the impact of wolves, and the unintended economic and environmental consequences of decimating their numbers (indiscriminate killing of wolves actually increases the tendency of wolf packs to prey on livestock, according to one source in the book).
The book provides an inside look at how animal protection policy gets made, including a story about how billionaire investor Carl Icahn worked with the HSUS to persuade McDonald's to eliminate gestation crates from its pork supply chain (the company also announced in September that it would switch to cage-free eggs; other giants have followed suit including Walmart, and, just this month, Disney).
magicinfoto via Shutterstock
"It's a new framing for animal protection in our society," says Pacelle. "It's not about doing without, but about opportunity and growth. I'm hoping that's the big takeaway."
Here are some other takeaways: Below, Pacelle sums up the coming battles and big priorities for HSUS and how animals' lives will change in the next five years.
1. We will (we must) eat less meat
In a book brimming with troubling descriptions and data, one grim fact leaps out: 77 billion land animals are raised annually for food. That's roughly 10 animals for every living person. And in the U.S., says Pacelle, where we raise 9 billion animals for food, it's 30 animals for every person. "The movement toward more plant-based protein, and meat reduction is going to be critical," says Pacelle, who devotes a chunk of the book to the efforts of companies like in-vitro meat maker Modern Meadow, and plant-based protein pioneers Impossible Foods and Beyond Meat (which HSUS has invested in). "We can't keep raising this number of animals. If China and Indonesia and Vietnam and South Korea and the Philippines adopt our consumption patterns, imagine thatyou're talking more than 200 billion animals. 200 billion. That is completely unsustainable."
"We can't keep raising this number of animals. You're talking more than 200 billion animals. That is completely unsustainable."
Pacelle acknowledges the daunting challenge ahead in China, where the meat trends are moving in the wrong direction. But he points to encouraging precedents in the country's actions on ivory sales and clean energy. "The resource problems of raising so many billions of animals will hit China in the face just like the problems of air pollution have with energy emissions," he says. "So I do believe that the notion that they want to get ahead of these problems rather than react to them is starting to take hold in China. But we're not there yet and so much of this still has to play out."
2. Animal testing will be eliminated
"[We are] ridding the world of animal testing, in cosmetics and chemicals and, even more, drug development," says Pacelle. The book highlights milestones in the journey to end animal testing, including the National Institutes of Health's 2015 decision to retire all research chimps, and innovations like L'Oreal's initiative to create human skin substitutes with 3-D printersskin that works better than animals to predict cosmetic reactions.
Bukhanovskyy via Shutterstock
3. The business of marine mammal killing will conclude
"(We will) end commercial whaling. Only three nations (Japan, Norway, and Iceland) are doing it. And sealing, which only a couple of countries are still doing (including Canadathat hunt is called the largest marine mammal cull on the planet). I see global consensus on that issue."
4. Asian countries will curtail the slaughter of dogs for meat
"To get very specific on one issue: The eating of dogs in certain parts of Asia is one of the biggest forms of animal cruelty, certainly for companion animals," says Pacelle. "South Korea has 17,000 dog meat farms. I don't see that country as it continues to progress being able to hold onto that economic enterprise. As the world shrinks, these outlier behaviors will come under increasing scrutiny." The Humane Society International has been working to rescue dogs from these enterprises, and helping farmers in South Korea transition away from the dog meat trade.
5. But firstanother big state will ban food from cruelly confined animals
In November, Massachusetts residents will vote on a ballot measure that would ban the sale of eggs, veal, or pork from an animal "confined in a cruel manner" (defined as: "confined so as to prevent a covered animal from lying down, standing up, fully extending limbs, or turning around freely"). California passed a similar measure, Prop 2, in 2008. "The play there is to close off the market of 7 million people to animal products that come from extreme confinement," says Pacelle, who sounds reasonably confident about the outcome. "We are going to win handily," he says.
Since the launch of the ballot measure, "120 of the biggest brand-names including a half a dozen headquartered in Massachusetts [said] they will stop selling eggs from confined animals. The only plausible argument advanced against such a measure was, 'Hey we've got to have affordable food, and we just can't produce it in large volumes without these forms of cage confinement,'" he says. "But when Walmart and McDonald's, who are offering low-cost food, say we can do it, then the world just shifted beneath our feet. The argument has been clinched when you have these companies saying they can do it."
This article was written by Teressa Iezzi from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 8 Easy Marinades With 5 or Fewer Ingredients
description: Adding a drizzle of dressing or a splash of sauce to finish a dish is fine, but those last-minute touches often leave a chunk of meat, a few lone noodles, or a single broccoli floret uncoated and blandugh.
If you want guaranteed, full-on flavor in every bite, marinades are where its at. With soaking times that can range from 15 minutes to overnight, these sauces seep deep into the core of your ingredients for maximum impact and minimal hands-on cooking time.
Check out these eight versatile, easy options to keep in your arsenal. Best of all: They're made up of just five or fewer ingredients (not counting pantry staples, like oil, water, salt, or pepper). So whether youre looking for spicy, sweet, herbalicious, or creamy, theres a marinade here thatll satisfy your craving.Photo: Yummily Yours1. Spicy Chimichurri Sauce
A staple in Argentinian cuisine, chimichurri can often be seen on restaurant menus as a garnish or a sauce. Here, its a bright, gorgeous marinade that screams freshness, thanks to parsley, lemon, and optional mint. Use it to jazz up a plate of veggies or liven up a heavy piece of meat.Photo: A Duck's Oven2. Spiced Yogurt Marinade
A digestion-aiding, heady blend of spices is tempered with a generous dollop of yogurt for an Indian-inspired marinade that works just as well on vegetables or tofu as it does on the chicken that this blogger opts for. Affordable and easy, its great way to impress for less.Photo: Swanky Recipes3. Simple Steak Marinade
While this blogger uses this marinade specifically for steak, we can see the balsamic, soy, and Worcestershire combo working on pretty much anything. Only 30 minutes of soaking in this fragrant, zesty blend is enough for your meat, veggies, or even tofu to absorb the flavors like a sponge.Photo: Bacon Veggie4. Coconut Lime Marinade
With fewer ingredients than typical Thai curry but an end product thats just as aromatic, this recipe turns coconut milk into a mouthwatering marinade thats perfectly suited for just about any protein, produce, or starch. Just a 15-minute simmer time will yield rich yet refreshing results thatll transport you straight to the tropics in a single bite.Photo: Fountain Avenue Kitchen5. A Third-A Third-A Third Marinade
Hate complicated recipes that come with all sorts of fussy proportions? We hear ya. Just like its name suggests, this ones all about keeping things straightforward, using equal parts of the trio of pantry-staple ingredients. Easy to remember and easy to assemble, this has go-to marinade written all over it.Photo: Wake the Wolves6. Healthy Teriyaki Sauce
Store-bought or restaurant versions of teriyaki sauce are, more often than not, real sugar bombs. For the teriyaki taste without the sweetness overload, turn to this recipe, which trades in the cupfuls of granulated stuff for just a tablespoon of honey, rounded out with the spice and savory flavors of soy, ginger, and garlic.Photo: A Farmgirl's Dabbles7. 5-Ingredient Honey Mustard Chicken Breast Marinade
A made-from-scratch recipe rather than a store-bought dressing, this take on honey mustard gives you more control of the sugar in a marinade that can typically be cloyingly sweet. A touch of curry powder further deepens the flavors and adds some antioxidants, while turmeric provides a rich yellow color.Photo: What's Gaby Cooking8. Spiced Balsamic Marinade
Roasting veggies plain is enough to bring out their natural sweetness, but they become downright addictive when doused in this tangy, slightly spicy marinade before entering the oven. The use of dried parsley and thyme makes it a super-convenient option for when you havent got time to run out for fresh herbs or when youre looking for a last-minute way to spruce up vegetables.
This article was written by Anisha Jhaveri from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The Actually Useful Guide to Self-Help
description: Over a decade ago, feeling Buddha-level enlightened after reading Eckhart Tolles The Power of Now, I dragged my friend Vicki into the nearest bookstore to convert her to the self-help brigade.Around that time, I thought I was going insane. I was fighting nonstop with my husband. I felt trapped, sad, angry, and unable to control my pendulum-like emotions. Tolles book, which found me at just the right time, helped me identify my emotional triggers and manage them before pandemonium broke loose again.
Even though I was already a bit of a self-help bookworm at this stage of my life, Vicki and I found ourselves in the self-help aisle under a bright, artificial light, completely intimidated by the hundreds of book spines surrounding us. Where were the warm and fuzzy sun rays wed anticipated?
This is why I dont recommend diving into self-help without some tips, unless youre ready to feel completely overwhelmed. There is a lot of really catchy material out there without any "meat between the buns." This applies not only to books, but also to YouTube, podcasts, blogs, online courses, appseven people on the street telling you how to save your soul.
Self-help is meant to make you feel good. In control. In touch with who you really are. Confident. Strong. Empowered. Happy! If youre actively seeking these things, I applaud you, and my heart sings in excitement for the journey that awaits you. And as a bonafide self-help junkie, heres my crash course in getting started.
3 Steps to Help Yourself1. Identify your need(s).
You may have more than one, but choose the most pressing for now. Are you struggling with confidence? Does your relationship need work? Are you overwhelmed and over-scheduled? Do you want to connect with your spiritual side? Articulating your current need eliminates 90 percent of unnecessary material. Exhale!
2. Think about how you like to absorb information.
Self-help material is not like watching a rerun of Friends or tuning into Spotifys Top 100. It requires an open mind and a little focus. The good news: The more you consume self-help, the more receptive your mind becomes to it. A friend of mine squeezes in self-help on the go all the time (she listens to two to three hours worth of material per week when she's on the subway with just her iPhone and earbuds).
The good news: The more you consume self-help, the more receptive your mind becomes to it.
Ask yourself: Do I like to read books and articles; listen to audio tapes and podcasts; watch something like a TED talk; or be inspired at a live event, seminar, or workshop? I'd suggest choosing at least one, maybe two for flexibility.
Bingo. Now you understand what you need and how you like to receive it. With the ocean of free material online, you can start your personal development party todaywherever you are!
3. Start with one self-help "teacher."
Heres how it works for me: I love books. Books speak to me more than any other form of information. I read a book. I love the book. I then search the author who (inevitably) has talks on YouTube, a podcast, live lectures I can attend, maybe even an app.
I get to know an author through their writing first, then explore their work in other ways. Depending on your interest and needs, here are some kick-ass teachers Id recommend to help you get started. (Almost all have free audio or video resources onlineno need to even wait for an Amazon arrival!)Improved health and physical wellness:
Louise Hay: You Can Heal Your Life and Life Loves You
Manifesting desires into your life:
Wayne W. Dyer: Youll See It When You Believe It
James Allen: As a Man Thinketh
Rhonda Byrne: The Secret (also a popular DVD)
Increasing your wealth:
Napoleon Hill: Think and Grow Rich!
Denise Duffield-Thomas: Get Rich, Lucky Bitch!
Dealing with change:
Spencer Johnson: Who Moved My Cheese?
Improving your romantic relationship:
Gary D. Chapman: The Five Love Languages
A big dose of perspective:
Viktor E. Frankl: Mans Search for Meaning
Creating the career of your dreams:
David J. Schwartz: The Magic of Thinking Big
Jack Canfield: The Success Principals
Gay Hendricks: The Big Leap
John C. Maxwell: How Successful People Think
Jim Collins: Good to Great
Overcoming procrastination and getting sh*t done:
Steven Pressfield: The War of Art and Do the Work
Marie Kondo: The Life Changing Magic of Tidying Up
Greg McKeown: Essentialism
Breaking free of cubicle life:
Tim Ferriss: The 4-Hour Work Week
James Altucher and Dick Costolo: Choose Yourself!
Spiritual soothing:
Brene Brown: The Gifts of Imperfection
Don Miguel Ruiz: The Four Agreements
Dale Carnegie: How to Stop Worrying and Start Living
Shakti Gawain: Creative Visualization
Marianne Williamson: A Return to Love
Following your calling:
Paulo Coelho: The Alchemist
As I read, I make the impact last by jotting down my favorite sentences, quotes, ideas, and thoughts from each source. I keep these in journals that I refer to whenever I need a boost. Referring to these messages for later reference and inspiration keeps the positive influence going for years.
A line like Marianne Williamsons Joy is what happens when you realize how good things really are, or Peace begins with me can shift my mood in an instant. Refer to your learnings oftenotherwise it can become the forgotten shelf-help that doesnt keep you going in moments you most need it.
Once you notice the shifts, you might become a bit of a self-help junkie too. Side effects may include more confidence, mental strength, resilience, improved sleep, a sense of inner calm, better physical appearance, more dough in the bank, motivation, joy, and a huge inner feeling of "yes." Is there a more awesome addiction?
Susie Moore is Greatists life coach columnist and a confidence coach in New York City. Sign up for her free weekly wellness tips on her website and check back every Tuesday for her latest No Regrets column!
This article was written by Susie Moore from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Kristen Bell Reminds Us Theres No Shame in Battling Anxiety and Depression
description: Depression isn't always easy to spot, especially in someone as bubbly and hilarious as actress Kristen Bell. But in this candid video from Off Camera With Sam Jones, Bell opens up about her family history of mental illness and her own struggle with depression and anxiety. She reminds us that there is power in talking about mental healthand that there is absolutely no shame in asking for help. Just when we thought we couldn't like her more.
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Why You Should Think Twice About Taking an Antibiotic
description: Superman, the Super Bowl, Super Mario Bros. Most things that start with the word super are pretty awesome. But we wouldn't say that about super gonorrhea, one of the many antibiotic-resistant diseases that have popped up in recent years.
We're seeing more and more of these superbugs, in part because we use antibiotics too frequentlyand often in cases where they don't even work. A new study published in the Journal of the American Medical Association found that one in three doctor-prescribed antibiotics is unnecessary.1
Antibiotics treat only bacterial infections. They won't do anything for a viral illness, like a cold, the flu, or bronchitis. So next time you get an Rx for antibiotics, it's worth double checking with your doctor to see if they'll really help.
(h/t Science.Mic)
Works Cited
Prevalence of Inappropriate Antibiotic Prescriptions Among US Ambulatory Care Visits, 2010-2011. Fleming-Dutra KE, Hersh AL, Shapiro DJ. JAMA, 2016, undefined.;315(17):1538-3598.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Florida Dredging Would Cut Path Across Corals in Crisis
description: As Americas only barrier reefs bleach, dissolve and succumb to disease, experts worry that a $320 million plan to expand oil and cargo shipments through Floridas corals could worsen flooding and threaten ecosystems crucial to fisheries and tourism businesses.Transplanted staghorn coral providing habitat for fish in Florida.
Credit:Fish and Wildlife Research Institute/Flickr
In addition to being one of the worlds busiest cruise ship terminals, Port Everglades, which in greater Fort Lauderdale is a 45-minute drive north of Miami, is a critical cog in the Sunshine States fossil fueled economy.
A sweeping water infrastructure bill introduced last month in the U.S. Senate would, among many other things, provide preliminary approval for the federal governments $220 million share of spending on a Port Everglades expansion. The port is the main delivery point for most of the gasoline, diesel and jet fuel bought and burned in the state.
Dredging of shipping channels through coral reefs and seagrass beds is scheduled to begin in two years following two decades of planning and environmental review. The project would help larger tankers and cargo ships reach berths, improve navigation safety and reduce shipping delays.
{related}
First, though, raucous debates are underway in Broward County and Washington and in the opinion sections of regional newspapers, pitting the economic value of a key Florida port against the economic and environmental value of its corals.
Were doing our best to educate Congress on the risks of this project, said Rachel Silverstein, a coral scientist who serves as the executive director of the nonprofit Miami Waterkeeper.
Port Everglades is located inside the Florida Reef Tract, a network of coral stretching south from West Palm Beach, hugging close to the Florida Keys toward Cuba. Like other coral reefs, Floridas tract supports fisheries and wildlife, underpins a large tourism industry and helps reduce flooding and erosion.
When planning began for the ports expansion, modern humanity had never experienced a global coral bleaching event. The first bleaching, in the late 1990s, left one out of six corals dead worldwide. The third and worst bleaching on record is now underway, threatening reefs from Florida to India and Australia.Surveys last year showed most of the Florida Reef Tract is bleaching. The corals are also suffering from ocean acidification and disease.
Credit: Florida Reef Resilience Program.
Floridas corals are succumbing to a white plague epidemic and unprecedented worldwide bleaching thats linked to warmer waters. Scientists announced last week that many of the states reefs are also dissolving from increasingly acidic waters. Like global warming, ocean acidification is primarily caused by carbon dioxide pollution from fuel burning and deforestation.
Theres been a significant decline in the health of the reef over the last several decades, and that certainly seems to be accelerating, said Brian Haus, a professor at the University of Miami. I think its in crisis. Its very stressed.
The House is due to release its own version of the Water Resources Development Act of 2016 this month. If Congress and the White House eventually approve a bill containing the Senates preliminary Port Everglades language, lawmakers would be cleared to begin appropriating federal funds needed to kickstart dredging.
The project would require permits from federal and state agencies. The dredging would also require approvals from local lawmakers in Broward County, where the tourism industry is a major employer. They very much have a vested interest in the environment
and especially in coral reefs, said Port Everglades spokeswoman Ellen Kennedy, a county official.
The EPA and environmental groups have objected to findings from the projects lengthy environmental review. In particular, the smothering effects of silt on corals growing near a similar project at Port of Miami were far worse than the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers had anticipated.
The Army Corps says its learning lessons from the Port of Miami expansion that will help it protect, cultivate and safely transplant corals when it expands Port Everglades
including endangered staghorn corals, which resemble 6-foot trees forming underwater forests.
The Army Corps says its aware of the sickly state of the reef tracts health, and that it considered cumulative impacts from climate change and other environmental problems when it studied likely impacts from dredging.
Still, it acknowledges more could be done, and it formed a working group that includes the EPA, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and other agencies that it says will help guide decisions regarding potential improvements to its environmental plans.Port Everglades shipping channels could be widened and deepened.
Credit:Daniel Piraino/Flickr
Our dredging methods and how we monitor that during construction should be improved, said Eric Bush, the planning chief for the Army Corps regional office. Thats one of the things that was a real lesson learned from Miami.
Not all of the concerns about the project relate directly to coral health. Haus faults the Army Corps for failing to fully model the likely impacts of the project on currents along shorelines and into an estuary, which could affect flooding and ecosystems alike.
When you do something significant to the inlet, you could very well change the circulation patterns in the whole estuary, Haus said. These things are subtle, but theyre the kind of things the Corps has missed in the past.
Army Corps assurances that it wont repeat past mistakes are doing little to soothe worried environmentalists like Silverstein, who are trying to pressure the federal government to expand an environmental review that they characterize as deficient.
Weve had bleaching of corals due to high temperatures; weve had a really terrible regional disease event last summer, Silverstein said. A lot of these things feel like theyre too big to be dealt with on a local level. But avoiding impacts from dredging is something we can control on a local level.
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The Guy Who Set the World Record for Pull-Ups Doesn't Look Anything Like the Hulk
description: Ron Cooper isn't your typical suburban dad. Though you'd never know it by looking at him, the financial planner and father of two from Massachusetts holds multiple Guinness World Records for fitness.
Known as "The Pull-Up Guy," Copper is possibly the strongest man in the world, pound-for-pound. His unassuming stature proves you never know how strong someone really is beneath the surface.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: See Earths Temperature Spiral Toward 2C
description: The steady rise of Earths temperature as greenhouse gases accumulate in the atmosphere and trap more and more heat is sending the planet spiraling closer to the point where warmings catastrophic consequences may be all but assured.
That metaphoric spiral has become a literal one in a new graphic drawn up by Ed Hawkins, a climate scientist at the University of Reading in the United Kingdom. The animated graphic features a rainbow-colored record of global temperatures spinning outward from the late 19th century to the present as the Earth heats up.
Monthly global temperatures from 1850-2016. Credit: Ed HawkinsThe pace of change is immediately obvious, especially over the past few decades, Hawkins, who has previously worked with Climate Centrals extreme weather attribution team, wrote in an email.
The graphic is part of Hawkinss effort to explore new ways to present global temperature data in a way that clearly telegraphs the warming trend. Another climate scientist, Jan Fuglestvedt of the Center for International Climate and Environmental Research
Oslo, suggested the spiral presentation.
The graphic displays monthly global temperature data from the U.K. Met Office and charts how each month compares to the average for the same period from 1850-1900, the same baselines used in the most recent report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
At first, the years vacillate inward and outward, showing that a clear warming signal had yet to emerge from the natural fluctuations that happen from year to year. But clear warming trends are present in the early and late 20th century.
{related}
In the later, it is clear how much closer temperatures have come to the target the international community has set to keep warming within 2C (4F) above pre-industrial levels by the end of the 21st century. An even more ambitious target of 1.5C (3F) has increasingly become a topic of discussion, and is also visible on the graphic.
Michael Mann, a climate scientist at Penn State who created the famous Hockey Stick graph of global temperature records going back hundreds of years, said that the spiral graphic was an interesting and worthwhile approach to representing the data graphically.
He said that using an earlier baseline period would have better captured all the warming that has occurred, as there was some small amount already in the late 19th century.
Just how much temperatures have risen is clear in the first few months of data from 2016, its line clearly separated from 2015
which was the hottest year on record
and edging in on the 1.5C mark.
Every month of 2016 so far has been the warmest such month on record; in fact, the past 11 monthshave all set records, the longest such streak in the temperature data kept by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. (Each agency that keeps such a temperature record handles the data slightly differently, which can lead to small differences in monthly and yearly values, though the overall trend is in broad agreement for all such agencies.)
The record-setting temperatures of 2016 have seen a small push from an exceptionally strong El Nio, but they are largely the result of the heat that has built up in the atmosphere over decades of unabated greenhouse gas emissions
as the spiral graphic makes clear.
Turns out that this version [of temperature records] particularly appeals, maybe because it doesn't require much interpretation, Hawkins said.
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Beachbody Coach Is All of Us When We Try to Eat Healthy
description: We all know what it's like to give into temptation when we're trying to eat healthier. This hilarious video by Beachbody coach Carolanne Miljavac perfectly captures the absurd lengths we go to in order to make it look like we're being "good." But we get itsometimes you just need the French fries.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: In India, Cows That Belch Less Could Mooooove The Needle On Climate Change
description: When humans have too much gas, a doctor will probably tell them to modify their diet. Scientists in India want to do the same for cows.
Belching and farting cows are a problem for the planet. The methane they release is a significant contributor to global warming. In a day, a cow can outgas 55 gallons of methane, and there are 1.5 billion cows in the worldand 280 million in India alone.
The New York Times reports that the Indian scientists at the Cow Research Institute are modifying cattle feed to find a formula that will cause cows to belch less. Another breeder is experimenting with actually creating a cow breed that he says produces only 10% of the methane as typical livestock cattle (it also can withstand hotter weather).
Flickr user Matt Zimmerman
There may be other, even better ideas for dealing with the problem by capturing the methane that cows emit and burning it for energy. Argentine researchers are working on this approach by using special backpacks tailored for cows that contain their gas.
Either way, for meat or dairy eaters who are concerned about their carbon footprint, climate-friendly cattle ranches could be the perfect alternative to changing their diet.
This article was written by Jessica Leber from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Here's What Actually Makes People Swipe Right
description: If youve ever tried your hand at Tinder, you know deciding to swipe right or left is a split-second decisionliterally, it takes one tenth of a second on average. The good news is it's not all about looks. They do play a part (we tend to pick people who look like us or our previous partners), but scientists found that we also use profile photos to make quick judgments about a person's intelligence and trustworthiness. As this video from Bustle shows, you can use these findings to your advantage when choosing the photo people see first.
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 7 Ways to Wake Up Without Coffee
description: Coffee can be a slippery slope. You start off with one cup in the morning for a quick boost, and before you know it you're pounding three before noon just to stay awake. Thankfully, there are plenty of other ways to get that morning jolt (none of which involve caffeine). So put down your Starbucks and check out this video from asapSCIENCE.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: How One City Is Working To Get An Overdose Antidote In Every Home
description: The opioid drug epidemicwhich is being fueled not just by illegal drugs like heroin, but also prescription pain medicationsnow kills more people in the United States than car crashes. In many cities, it kills more people than homicides. The question now, for many public health officials, is why everyone doesn't have access to the simple, safe drug that almost miraculously reverses overdoses and could save thousands of lives a year.
"In modern medicine there are few diseases, few ailments that have a complete antidote," says Baltimore Health Commissioner Leana Wen, who has been among the officials nationwide leading the charge to improve access to the drug, called naloxone (or by its trade name Narcan). "It is unconscionable that if we have an antidote that we should not make it available to everyone."
Naloxone, which can be injected or given through a nasal spray, is simple for a bystander to administer when they see signs of someone overdosing and it immediately reverses its effects. Importantly, there are no side effects if it is given by mistake to someone who isn't on opioids.
via Flickr
Around the country, in schools, drug courts, and on the streets, officials are working to distribute naloxone and train people to use it. In some cities, police now carry it around. Drug stores, like CVS, Walgreens, and Rite Aid, have over the last year made it available without an individual prescription in about half of U.S. states that allowed it. The manufacturer is distributing it for free in schools in the United States.
In Baltimore, where 20,000 out of 620,000 city residents use heroinpart of an epidemic that was damaging minority communities long before opioids became a national issueWen's goal is that a dose of naloxone should be in everyone's first aid kit and medicine cabinet. Last year, she issued a "standing order" blanket prescription, so that anyone in Baltimore who completes a very short training, can fill an order at a local pharmacy. "We believe in training everyone," she says. (Days before his death, Prince reportedly had to land his plane to get a dose, though presumably there would have been a first aid kit on the plane that, if Wen has her way, would have been equipped with naloxone).
So far, the city has trained 10,000 people on using naloxone and has launched a 24/7 phone line as a one-stop resource for anyone with addiction or mental health needs (six months after it launched, it gets 1,000 calls a week). The health department has tried to use data to figure out where the "hotspots" over overdoses are. Trainings have included more obvious places, like in drug treatment courts, prisons, and needle exchange sites, but also in cafes, at bus stops, public housing, and even at a country club.
"There is no hope for getting someone into treatment if they're dead today."
On election day, it set up training sessions at polling stations so people could "learn to save a life" while they waited their turn. Finally, with its "don't die" anti-stigma campaign, she believes the city has launched the first online naloxone training. After watching an eight minute video and taking a short quiz, I printed out a certificate that I could fill at a pharmacy in Baltimore. Though it is hard to get clear data on how much the drug is being used by people trained through the program, Wen says that several lives have been saved this year by people having greater access to Naloxone. The Baltimore police force have been carrying naloxone doses for just a few months; she says they have saved 21 lives.
Still, similar programs are controversial in some states. In Maine, Republican Governor Paul LePage vetoed legislation in April that would expand access to naloxone, echoing worries from some that too much access to the drug reduces the incentives for addicts to get treatment, knowing they have a safety net.
"Creating a situation where an addict has a heroin needle in one hand and a shot of naloxone in the other produces a sense of normalcy and security around heroin use that serves only to perpetuate the cycle of addiction," he wrote in his veto letter. (Maine's legislature quickly passed the bill over the governor's veto).
"Why is it that now that it's no longer communities of color that are dying that we suddenly think that this is a matter of a public health emergency?"
Wen believes that this is exactly the wrong approach that echoes the mistake in treating addiction for decades. "To everyone who will listen, we have said: 'The science is clear: addiction is a disease. Recovery is possible. And treatment exists," she says. "There is no hope for getting someone into treatment if they're dead today." Baltimore is opening a stabilization and treatment center that will function as something like an ER for people with drug issues, but more funding at the national level is clearly needed. Even for naloxone, the soaring priceat $40 a dose last Julymay become a limiting factor for distributing it everywhere.
Baltimore, of course, has been dealing with drugs for many decades, but rates of addiction have increased in the last decade beyond urban areas where they have traditionally been higher.
"I hear our community saying ... people have been dying in our city from overdoses for a long time. Why is it that now that it's no longer communities of color that are dying that we suddenly think that this is a matter of a public health emergency?" says Wen.
"I think it's fair to acknowledge that and say it's a little too late, actually a lot too late in our city, but that doesn't mean we can't start now and capitalize on the national attention that there is, recognizing that rhetoric is not enough."
This article was written by Jessica Leber from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: An Autonomous Robot Surgeon Just Successfully Sewed Up A Pig
description: A robot surgeon just performed an entire operation by itself. The STAR (Smart Tissue Autonomous Robot) robot reconnected segments of bowel in a pig and did everything autonomously. Human surgeons were part of the team, but only took a supervisory role, while remaining ready to hit the pause button and take over if needed.
There are plenty of robot-assisted surgeries, but this one, carried out by the Children's National Medical Center in Washington, D.C., was fully autonomous, from start to finish. The STAR bot was programmed by humans and then went to work. The result? Success.
"The current paradigm of robot-assisted surgeries (RASs) depends entirely on an individual surgeon's manual capability," say the new study's authors. "Autonomous robotic surgeryremoving the surgeon's handspromises enhanced efficacy, safety, and improved access to optimized surgical techniques."
The problem is seeing what's going on inside a body. The purplish, fleshy tones all tend to merge together, which means that human surgeons are needed for their trained eyes if not their shaky hands. STAR's star component is a new vision system, which uses a combination of 3-D cameras and infra-red marking dye to help differentiate the tissues.
The system makes a constantly updated 3-D model of the area and then applies its autonomous suturing algorithm to the problem. This algorithm is based on "best human surgical practices" and constantly assesses how it's doing. In these experiments, the system also monitored the tension of the suture thread and compared it to the pressure needed in the segment of bowel tube to keep it sealed. This is a delicate task: The suture needs to be tight enough not to leak, but not damage the tissue. The stitches also need to be close enough to prevent leaks, but with space to allow blood flow to promote healing.
The operation, as they say, was a success. "Supervised autonomy with STAR not only is feasible but also, by some metrics, surpasses the performance of accepted surgical techniques," says the paper, published in Science Translational Medicine. The purpose of this study wasn't to see if robots can replace human surgeons. Rather, the intent was to "expand human capacity and capability through enhanced vision, dexterity, and complementary machine intelligence for improved surgical outcomes."(Your browser doesn't support iframe)In this regard you can think of the STAR robot as a particularly clever tool, to be deployed to do certain jobs better than a human can. It will likely be a matter of time before patients go under the robot's scalpel.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This 3-D Printed Wheelchair Can Make A More Comfortable Life For The Disabled
description: If someone uses a wheelchair, they're often stuck sitting in it for 18 hours a day. Unsurprisingly, that leads to problemsit's uncomfortable, and even just turning a wheel all day long can lead to shoulder injuries.
A new wheelchair is designed to help by perfectly customizing its shape to the person using it: Body mapping software takes their 3-D measurements and then the seat and footrest are made to measure with a 3-D printer.
It's a better fit than even customized wheelchairs that are available now. "It's like molding something to the body rather than measuring something with a ruler," says Benjamin Hubert, founder of London-based design agency Layer, which spent six months working with wheelchair users, doctors, and the 3-D printing software company Materialise to design the new wheelchair.
"There's a huge degree of accuracy that we're gaining by ultimately just offsetting the shape body and emulating that in the seat," he says.
The custom seat, printed in a combination of two plastics for shock absorption, creates a center of gravity based on the user's exact shape and weight. The foot bay, printed in titanium, is based on the length and shape of their feet and sitting position. The rest of the wheelchair can be made from standard parts. "It's only really those two components which determine how well the overall wheelchair fits," says Hubert.
The process can take as little as two weeksfar faster than making a custom wheelchair now on an up to eight week timeline. The wheelchair also has other new design touches, like an overlay pattern on the wheels that matches up with a pair of gloves, so it's easier for someone to get a strong grip and push the chair. This relieves the unnatural motion of moving the wheel, which generates pressure on shoulder joints and injuries.
If some 3-D printed objects are in the early stagesit's likely that you're not going to move into a 3-D printed house very soon, or get a 3-D printed heart transplant, or even that your next pair of shoes will be 3-D printedthis is a perfect example of how 3-D printing can be useful now, and make more than plastic tchotchkes.
The prototype wheelchair will be unveiled during Clerkenwell Design Week in London. "This is one of those cases when 3-D printing is actually really appropriate, and not just a marketing stunt," he says.
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 10 High-Protein Desserts You Don't Have to Save for a Special Occasion
description: It's easy to think that sweets and protein never mix, given that most baked goods are decidedly lacking in protein status. To be fair, the muscle-building macronutrient is tops when it comes to savory dishes (chicken breasts, anyone?). But it also stars in some legitimately satisfying sweet recipes. All the more reason to add some protein to your dessert? A meal high in protein helps promote feelings of fullness for longer, reducing cravings and the chances of overeating. So have your cake and eat your protein too by trying one of these recipes.Photo: Feeding My Addiction1. Guilt-Free Birthday Cake Bars
Protein supplements aren't just for bodybuildersthey can actually be a versatile and tasty ingredient in all sorts of cooking. This recipe uses brown rice protein powder and almond, oat, and peanut flour to add a rich texture to the cake bars.Photo: A Little Rosemary and Time2. Healthy Tiramisu Protein Pancakes
Your taste buds won't believe this recipe is low carb and low fat, not to mention packed with protein (26 grams per serving)! And don't forget how easy it is to make pancakes. It only takes a few foolproof steps to stack these cakes high!Photo: Food, Faith, Fitness3. Healthy Homemade Peanut Butter Cups
We all know chocolate and peanut butter combine to equal heaven, but sometimes that mix is heavy on sugar and preservatives. That's where this recipe comes in. Simple, just a bit of honey, and fixed with coconut oil, this chocolaty concoction could hitch a ride in any healthy lunchbox. While these are quick to whip up, don't forget to factor in the time it takes to chill them in the freezer.Photo: Gintare Giliute4. Triple Chocolate and Plum Protein Cake Bars
Tired of chomping down on store-bought protein bars? Switch it up (and cut back on added sugars and preservatives) with this homemade version that is perfect for any chocolate lover. Bonus: They have plum for added sweetness!Photo: Lettuce Be Healthy5. Pumpkin Protein Pancakes
The most important meal of the day just got a whole lot tastier (and better for you). You can easily whip up a batch of high-protein pancakes that will have your kitchen smelling like fresh pumpkin pie. Bonus: Pumpkin is known for its immunity-boosting properties and is loaded with fiber to help you feel full for hours to come.Photo: Desserts With Benefits6. Pumpkin Pie Pudding
We're always looking for ways to meet our daily pumpkin intake, and this one-step recipe fits the bill perfectly. Enjoy with homemade pumpkin pure for an extra-fresh taste.Photo: Amy's Healthy Baking7. Chocolate Chip Cookie Dough Protein Bars
These cookie dough bars don't require any baking to get a great finished product. Don't forget to store them in the fridge for a couple hours to make cutting them into squares (or whatever shape you desire) easier.Photo: VM Fitness8. High-Protein Cheesecake
Everybody loves cheesecake. This recipe takes some liberties with the traditional recipethe cake filling is made with light cream cheese, protein-rich Greek yogurt, and eggsto ensure it actually is healthy. Go ahead, dig in!Photo: Fit Foodie Finds9. Grain-Free Protein Peanut Butter Cookies
We couldn't make a list of baked goods without including cookies (that'd just be cruel). This easy-to-scale recipe is every peanut butter lover's dream. Fix these in a quick 15 minutesit will be hard to stop at just one!Photo: Wondermom Wannabe10. Chocolate Protein Cookies
We'll be the first to admit that these aren't the prettiest cookies, but it's what's on the inside that counts. The combination of chocolate and bananas makes these gooey and sweetin other words, top-notch.
Just can't get enough of high-protein desserts? Here are some more healthy, high-protein snacks you can make and take on the fly.
This post was written by Alex Lewis of PrettyFit, which provides active women with the best nutritional supplements, healthy snacks, workout gear and more through monthly packs chosen by top fitness professionals. Expert trainers include their best workouts, recipes, and tips to maximize the benefit of the products inside every pack.
Originally published June 2014. Updated May 2016.
This article was written by Alex Lewis from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 33 Cardio-Based Bodyweight Exercises
description: Fact: You can get a great cardio workout without having to run miles on a treadmill or spend time on a rowing machine. In fact, these bodyweight-only moves are mostly low impact, meaning you can do them in the comfort of your own living room without worrying about annoying the neighbors downstairs.
We tapped Josey Greenwell, certified trainer and Barry's Bootcamp instructor, to show us some of his favorite heart-pumping exercises. You can create your own routine by following our guidelinesor try his workout at the end of the article. Either way, you'll be burning fat and upping your cardiovascular endurancewin-win!
How to Use This List
Create your own workout: Pick 3 or 4 moves from the list below and add them to any workout. Do the moves between strength training exercises as an active rest or add them on to the start of a run or other cardio routine. Perform each exercise for 30 to 60 seconds and complete 2 to 3 rounds.
Try our workout: Skip the guesswork and scroll to the end to do Greenwell's workout.
Beginner1. Inchworm
Stand with feet hip width and core tight. Bend from the waist, place hands on the ground, and walk hands forward, keeping legs straight. When you arrive in a high plank, quickly walk hands back toward feet and stand.
Make it harder: Add a push-up when you are in the high plank position.
2. Power Skip
Stand with feet hip width and core tight. Raise right knee up as you bring left arm forward and hop off left foot. Land on the ball of your left foot then immediately bring right foot down and repeat on the other side. Focus on height not speed.
3. Uppercut
Stand in a split stance with right foot one step ahead of left foot and hips squared (facing forward). With right hand, punch up and to the left with a scooping motion. Quickly repeat on the other side. Continue to alternate as quickly as possible while maintaining loose knees and a tight core. Halfway through, switch stance to the other side.4. Mountain Climber Twist
From a high plank position with core tight, run left knee in toward right elbow, then right knee in toward left elbow. Continue to alternate as quickly as possible without hiking hips.
Make it easier: Run knees straight in toward chest rather than twisting.
5. High Knees
Stand with your feet hip width and run in place by pulling right knee up toward chest, then left knee up toward chest. Continue to alternate as quickly as possible.
Make it easier: If running isn't part of your game plan, perform this move as a march, using your core to pull your knee toward your chest.
6. Punch
Start in the same split stance that you used for uppercuts, with right foot one step ahead of left foot. Raise both fists up, keeping elbows pulled in to rib cage. Punch forward with left hand, slightly rotating torso as you do. Punch as quickly as possible for half of your time, then switch your stance and punch on the other side.7. Plank Jacks
From a high plank position, with core tight, jump feet apart then jump them back together. Repeat as quickly as possible while trying to maintain level hips.
8. Butt Kick
Run in place kicking heels toward glutes. Swing arms at side or allow them to rest against butt so that heels kick palms. Make sure the movement is being driven from your hamstrings (not your feet kicking up dust).
9. Fast Feet Shuffle
With feet wider than hip width, bend knees slightly, sending hips back and keeping core tight. Shuffle feet to the right for 4 paces (or for as much space as you have), then shuffle back the other way. Stay low and make your feet move as quickly as possible to get the most out of this exercise.10. Plank-to-Knee Tap
From a high plank position with core engaged, shift back and pike hips as you lift right hand to tap left shin (or ankle if you're extra flexible!). Return to high plank position and repeat on the other side. Move through the exercise as quickly as possible while maintaining good form.
11. Jumping Jack
This classic cardio move is a great way to warm up or do active rest between more difficult moves. Start with feet together, hands at sides, core engaged. Now jump legs apart and bring arms overhead, clapping at the top. Keep knees bent as you jump feet back together and bring arms down. Repeat as quickly as possible.
12. Vertical Jump
The goal here is simple: Try to jump as high as possible. Stand with a slight bend in the knees and feet hip width. Swing both arms back as you bend a little deeper. Then, as you swing arms forward, jump up, extending arms overhead. Land lightly and repeat.13. Skaters
Stand with feet hip width and a slight bend in knees. Jump to the right with right foot, landing lightly on the ball of your right foot and sweeping left foot behind right leg. Do not put weight on left foot if you can help it! Immediately jump to the left with left foot, allowing right foot to sweep behind left leg. Continue to alternate sides.
Intermediate14. Long Jump With Jog Back
Stand with feet hip width and a slight bend in knees. Swing both arms back and bend a little deeper, then swing arms forward and jump forward as far as possible with both feet, landing lightly on the balls of your feet. Now, as quickly as possible, jog backward to starting place and repeat.
15. Tuck Jump
It's time to catch some air. Stand with knees slightly bent and jump up, bringing knees to chest and extending arms out straight in front of chest. Lower arms as you land lightly on the floor.16. Corkscrew
From a high plank position with core tight, shift weight onto left hand, lift right hand off ground, then rotate to the right and kick left foot out to the right. Tap left foot with right hand. Repeat on the other side moving as quickly as possible.
17. Divers Push-Up
If you've been to yoga before, you'll recognize this as a near chaturangabut a little faster. Start in a down dog position with hands on the ground, hips high in the air, and feet on the ground so you form a triangle shape. In a fluid motion, dive head toward the floor, coming into a low push-up position, and then swoop chest forward and up so you end in an upward dog position. From there, push hips up to return to starting position.18. Wide Mountain Climbers
From a high plank position with core tight, bring right foot forward to the outside of right hand so you are in a low lunge position. Jump and switch feet in midair so that you land with your left foot to the outside of your left hand with your right foot straight back. Continue to alternate as quickly as possible.
Make it easier: Skip the hop. Instead, step right foot back then quickly step left foot forward.
19. Invisible Jump Rope
Hop over an invisible rope (no need to jump more than 1 or 2 inches off the ground) by staying on your toes and pushing off with the balls of your feet. Make quick, small movements with your wrists as if youre holding a rope.20. 3 Hops to Push-Up
Stand on right foot with left foot elevated and core tight. Hop 3 times then bend down and quickly walk hands out so you are in a high plank position with left foot still off ground. Do 3 push-ups, never putting left foot down. Walk hands back and stand up to return to starting position. Repeat for half the time on one side only, then switch sides.
21. Step-Up
You'll need a bench or sturdy chair for this move. Place right foot on the bench and, using glutes, push up so right leg is straight and left foot is off the ground. Slowly lower, allowing left foot then right foot to come down to the ground. Repeat, focusing on using only your right glutes (do not push off with left foot).22. Classic Burpee
It's the move we love to hate (and our model makes it look so easy!). Stand with feet hip width and core tight. Jump up then immediately drop to the floor, placing hands on the ground and shooting feet back so you're in a high plank position. Do a push-up. Quickly jump feet back to hands and, in one movement, stand and jump up to complete 1 rep.
23. Single-Leg Hop
Stand on right leg, lift left foot off ground, and brace core. Jump forward 3 to 5 times, each time landing lightly on the ball of your foot. Switch feet and jump back to start.
Make it harder: Jump in a box formation: forward, side, back, side, then switch directions before hopping on the other side.24. Runner's Skip
Start in a low lunge position with right foot forward, left foot back, and fingertips touching the ground for balance. In one smooth movement, bring left foot forward and, as you stand on right foot, continue to lift left knee toward chest and hop up on right foot. Land lightly on right foot and immediately slide left foot behind you to return to starting position. Repeat for half the time then switch to the other side.
25. Flutter Kick
Lie faceup on your back with navel pulled toward spine. You can slide both hands under the curve of low back for added support. Using your core, lift both feet 3 to 4 inches off the ground and kick feet up and down several inches, keeping core engaged throughout. If you feel any discomfort in your low back, skip this exercise.
26. Sprinter Sit-Ups
Start in a seated position with legs extended in front of you and arms bent to 90-degree angles (think robot). Lean back slightly as you lift right leg with right knee bent and bring left elbow to right knee, engaging obliques as you twist upper torso to the right. Return to starting position and repeat on the other side.
Advanced27. Squat Jump
Do a perfect squat. As you come up, jump up, extending legs fully and pushing arms down to help with your momentum. Land lightly on toes and immediately drop into a squat again. Greenwell suggests holding hands behind head (as shown), which helps to keep chest open and posture straight.
28. Plyometric Push-Up
Master a perfect push-up before attempting this move. Do a perfect push-up, but as you push up, push even harder so that both hands come off the ground and you can clap hands together before landing in a high plank again. Plyometric moves are great for building strength and power. Get even more ideas in our article here.29. Tricep Push-Up With Mountain Climber
Two moves is better than one, right? You may want to do this move on a mat or a towel for padding. Start in a high plank position with core tight. Lower onto both forearms at the same time, maintaining a tight core and level hips. Now push back up onto hands at the same time to return to starting position. Finish by drawing right knee into chest, then left knee into chest, doing a mountain climber.
Make it easier: Lower and push back up one arm at a time, rather than both arms at once. You could also perform a push-up on your knees then lift knees to do the mountain climber.
30. Box Jump
You'll need a box or sturdy bench to complete this move. If you've never attempted box jumps, start with a box that is mid-calf height and progress to higher heights from there. Stand in front of box with feet shoulder-width apart. Bend knees, send hips back, swing arms back, and, as you swing arms forward, explode up onto box. Land lightly on toes (no loud thuds!) then step down one foot at a time and repeat.31. Donkey Kick
From a high plank position with core tight and hips level, jump feet up and kick butt with heels. Your weight should come forward onto hands, but shoulders should stay in line over wrists. Extend legs and land lightly on toes to return to starting position.
32. Lateral Jump
This move works best if you use a low bench. With the low bench at your right side, start with knees slightly bent and hips back. Shift weight to left foot then jump over the bench first with right foot, allowing the left foot to follow. Land lightly on right foot first then left foot. Reverse the move, starting with left foot, to return to starting position.33. Jumping Lunges
This move is sure to get your heart racing in no time. Master a basic lunge before progressing to this version. With right foot ahead of left foot and core tight, drop into a low lunge, bending both knees to 90 degrees. Now jump up, switching feet in middair so you land with left foot ahead of right foot and immediately drop into a low lunge on the other side.
The Workout
Greenwell created this inventive (and sweaty!) quick cardio workout by combining 3 of the moves from our list above. Do each move below in order for the indicated number of reps.
Tricep Push-Up With Progressing Mountain Climber
Start with 1 push-up and 1 mountain climber. Next time, do 1 push-up and 2 mountain climbers. Then 1 push-up and 3 mountain climbers. Continue until you get to 10 mountain climbers.
Hops and Push-Up Combo
Do 3 hops on one leg then 3 push-ups. That's 1 rep. Do 10 to 15 reps per side.
Squat Jump
Do 20 seconds of squat jumps followed by a 10-second squat hold. Repeat for 5 minutes.
Special thanks to Josey Greenwell of Barry's Bootcamp, who modeled these moves and created this workout. Greenwell wears his own Nike shorts and sneakers, and a Manduka shirt.
Originally published July 2014. Updated May 2016.
This article was written by The Greatist Team from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The Next New York City Breweries Will Be For Recycling Food Waste
description: In 16 years, if all goes as planned, New York City will no longer send any trash to landfills. That includes the million-plus tons of food waste the city generates every year. But, like other cities that are trying to recycle organic waste, New York faces a challenge: there aren't yet enough places to take it.
The biggest composting facility on the East Coast was closed in 2014 because it smelled so foul, a problem compounded by the length of time it took the food to break down. Composting might work well if everyone had a backyard. But it turns out that it's a tricky thing to scale up, especially for the amount of food thrown out in a large city.
Biogas made from food waste that can be burned for electricity is another option, but it creates pollution. Instead, a new startup, Industrial/Organic, is attempting to develop a clean, indoor process that can turn food waste into near-odorless fertilizer and can be done within city limits.
Founder Amanda Prinzo learned about New York's lack of organic waste facilities when she began volunteering for a city compost program. "I originally started wanting to work on a collection service," she says. "I wanted to be like Uber for recycling. I thought organic waste was already figured outyou just compost it. I thought there wasn't really a lot of room for innovation."
Prinzo found out that New York had been considering composting for decades. The fact that it has been slow to launchcurrently composting is only mandatory for some large businesses with a pilot program for some residentsis partly because of a lack of places to handle the food waste.
Industrial/Organic's system is based on a method of fermentation that can process waste more quickly, at greater volumes. "It works by pickling food wasteyou're preserving it," she says. The process produces biomass pellets that can be used as fertilizer and wastewater that could be cleaned and reused. It's a method that has already been used on a small scale by some community gardens and homesteaders. The startup has mechanized and scaled it up.
The startup has been testing its food-waste recycling process in Red Hook, Brooklyn.
It processes food waste in a week, compared to as long as three months at a composting facility. It doesn't have the same challenges with odor and can happen inside. "It's laid out sort of like a brewery, so we can pop up in a warehouse," she says. "We don't have to build a plant from the ground."
The startup has been testing the process in Red Hook, Brooklyn, and plans to open its first facility in the small town of Newburgh in the Hudson Valley, an hour and a half outside New York City. Eventually, it's something that could even happen inside the city itself. For Prinzo, who grew up next to the Fresh Kills landfill in Staten Islandbefore it was closed, the largest landfill in the worldthe project is a way of working on a problem she's been aware of her entire life.
The business model, like other recycling facilities, is an alternative to a landfill. Haulers will pay a tipping fee. Once the model is working in New York, the startup plans to start expanding to other cities.
"I think the waste industry is looking at New York City and saying if New York can figure out how to separate organic waste, then everybody's going to do it," Prinzo says.
Industrial/Organic is part of the first cohort of the Urban-X startup accelerator, and plans to begin looking for investment this month.
Photos: via Industrial/Organic
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Science Invents A Better Way To Boil Water
description: Sometimes the objective of boiling water isn't to get hot water. You might boil it to create steam, say, to turn a turbine and create power. A lot of heat might get wasted doing that boiling. But a new method for heating up water might change that.
By tuning the creation and release of bubbles in boiling water, more steam is created, and the size of these steam bubbles can be precisely controlled, along with the rate of their release. This also lets you get the heat out of the water a lot faster, making it a much better cooling agent.
Flickr user Anders Sandberg
The new method, discovered at Oregon State University and published in Nature, uses nanomaterials to do the job. The surface of the boiling vessel is printed first with hydrophobic (water-repelling) polymer dots. Then a pattern of water-attracting (hydrophilic) nanomaterial is deposited. This pattern of attraction and repulsion allows the surface to be configured for the precise creation of bubbles in boiling water. The job of printing the nanoparticles is done by a standard inkjet printer.
When water reaches a boiling point, it doesn't necessarily turn to steam. It needs some kind of physical spota "nucleation site"to form a bubble. This can be an imperfection or crevice in the surface of the container. That's why a clean, scratch-free jug of water heated in the microwave can seem to be below boiling point, but explode as soon as you move it. The water in there is super-heated beyond 212 degrees, but hasn't found any nucleation sites to let it turn into steam. When you disturb it, swirls in the water can be enough to release all that pent-up energy into steam. Another example is throwing salt into boiling pasta water. It suddenly roils because you just tossed a handful of nucleation sites in there.
By precisely controlling nucleation, the Oregon State team can choose how the water boils. The more bubbles, the more heat can escape, which is perfect if the water is a coolant. Anywhere that heat has to be quickly dissipated, this new method can help, from power stations, to high-power lasers, and some kinds of solar energy.
If your goal is to make as much steam as possible, perhaps in an turbine generator, then the nano-printed surface helps there, too, letting water turn to steam with a lower surface temperature, which in turn uses less energy. In tests, the new surface is three times better at turning water to steam than a bare stainless steel surface.
As you can see in these pictures, the technique is so precise it can be used to write letters with the bubbles of steam as they form. Creating a printing pun involving bubble jets and dot matrices will be left as an exercise for the reader.
The ease of treating materials, using standard, off-the-shelf printers, could lead to adoption of this new boiling method in large-scale electricity-generation plants, and also in small, heat-dissipating components inside electronic devices. The possibilities are as varied as the range of devices that use water for cooling, or steam for, well, for steaming things. And the best thing about this tech is that it works on top of other methods. Combined in a power station with Germany's ultra-efficient coal burners, for example, it could allow for a lot more electricity to be produced from the same amount of coal.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The 10 Cities Where Solar Is Going Viral
description: There are plenty of logical reasons to get solar panels on your home, including saving money in the long term, reducing your carbon footprint, and helping homes break free from the electric grid. But one of the biggest motivating factors? Whether your friends and neighbors are doing it.
In the residential solar market, research has shown that peer pressure is a strong factor in purchasing decisions. One 2014 study, by Yale University and University of Connecticut researchers, mapped almost 4,000 solar units over a decade and found "considerable clustering of adoptions" in "wave-like centrifugal" patterns. They found that one installation within a group of households increases the chances of a second installation by almost 50%.
New data from the solar installer SolarCity shows this phenomenon in detail. The company looked at its referral program and found the 10 cities with more than 100 installations where the largest percentage of installations came from referralsall were above 50%. Six states are represented on the list.
You can see what solar "contagiousness" looks like in Honolulu:
And in Fort Collins and Greeley, Colorado:
As solar panels become more popular2015 saw the most installations in any year by farthey will continue to spread as people see their neighbors have them. I noticed this myself when I visited by parents' house on Long Island after a few months away, and all of the sudden out of nowhere, about a quarter of my immediate neighborhood seemed to have installed rooftop panels. This is a good kind of keeping up with the Joneses.
This article was written by Jessica Leber from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: A Terrifying Photo Collection Shows How Climate Change Is Destroying The Planet Right Now
description: In 2015, the hottest year on record, heat waves killed hundreds of people, a glacier in Greenland lost a chunk of ice the size of Manhattan, and the wettest rainforest in the United States caught fire. 2016 is going be even hotter.
Muslims Ningxia Katharina Hesse
An Instagram account, Everyday Climate Change, documents what's happening around the world visually, with photos of the causes and effects of global warming from every continent, including droughts, fires, and floods.
"I had been documenting the large-scale environmental consequences in East Asia as a result of the rapid development here," says James Whitlow Delano, the Japan-based photographer who started the project in 2015. "The air in China had become thick enough to cut with a knife. The deserts there are expanding. Oil palm is leading to massive deforestation in equatorial Southeast Asia. Larger and larger storms are hitting coastal areas in the region, too. I felt that magnitude of the problem leading to climate change was not being addressed."(Your browser doesn't support iframe)James Whitlow DelanoDelano met one of the founders of Everyday Africa, another Instagram feed that shows a side of Africa that isn't usually in the media. He was inspired to do something similar on climate, working with photographers around the world.
"I wanted to try to avoid making the feed a collection of Western or Northern photographers documenting climate change," he says. "So, I have sought member photographers that are as varied as the regions they document."
He's also bringing the photos to real-life exhibitsso far, Milan, New York, Chicago, and Delhi and other Indian cities in August. "I feel that face-to-face
communication still leaves a more lasting, deeper impression," he says. "I love to
see the light go on in students' eyes when the message resonates."
All Photos: via Everyday Climate Change
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Instagram Is Life Pornand We Have to Get It Under Control
description: I love Instagram. It's a platform that's kind of fun to use, and I definitely enjoy it. But it's also pretty f*cked.
More than any other social platform, it's encouraged us to translate the personal and professional lives of other people into sheer porninspiration porn, motivation porn, fitness porn, and start-up porn.
I don't think this says anything about the modern world, or kids these days, or superficialityI've read those think pieces, and they're full of self-righteous crap. I'm not trying to throw social media under the bus. That's not my intention.
Rather, this is about the desire people have had for centuries: to want to live their lives through other people. That's what gossip columns are all about. That's what celebrity culture is all about. That's why thousands of people showed up to Rodolfo Valentino's funeral a long time before Instagram was invented. All social media has done is turned everyone into potential avatars, potential lives that we can take on and try to believe are our own. It's widened the net. The only reason the situation is worse is because there are so many more lives to look at and people to obsess over.
So what does this behavior do? It does a couple of things.
It takes away the pressure of achieving, being, doing, living, succeeding, working, trying. By offering us a window into what it would be like if we could, it removes the driving motivation to do it ourselves.
It takes away the pressure of achieving, being, doing, living, succeeding, working, trying. By offering us a window into what it would be like if we could, it removes the driving motivation to do it ourselves.
It's about fantasy. It's about building a fantasy that we can lose ourselves in without the pressure and the need to make that fantasy a reality. It's about imagining that we are the people we're perving out on and pretending we're in their shoes.
This destroys the value you place on your own life. It makes you compare where you're at with everyone else in the world, with people who have achieved more and done more, and it shows the cracks in the way you live. There's no better way to hate yourself than to look at someone you love just a little more.
It might not be a conscious thing, but I'll bet you do it as much as anyone else. I'll bet you do it as much as me. You do it when you see people who are fit; who live glamorous lives; and who seem happier, cooler, sleeker, and shinier than you. You do it again and again, and you probably do it every day. Up until a few weeks ago, I'd kick off every single day by scrolling through Instagram for a good 45 minutes.
I'm going to be up front with you. I'm going to be a little harsh. Blaming the people who are popular on the platform for filling your feed with content that makes you stop and fantasize is a major cop out. It's showing zero responsibility for yourself. It's weak. It's the same as calling the platform a vapid waste of time. If you're one of those people, it'd behoove you to get down off your high horse and share the same view as the rest of us.Don't get me wrong. Instagram can be awesome. If you're not overdoing it, it really can be inspiring, artistic, and creative. It can be a visual wonderland of cool stuff. It can introduce you to great ideas and make you laugh, make you get off your ass and fight for what you want. But it's not going to do that if you can't set a limit on it.
So what are you supposed to do? There's no key. There's no method. There isn't a "10 easy steps" listicle that's going to stop you from beating yourself up and fantasizing about someone else's life. It's about imposing stricter limitations on yourself in the exact same way that you would with any other unhealthy habit. If you've got a drinking problem, a junk-food problem, an actual porn problemthere's no magic fix. Kicking the habit is hard work.
I thoroughly enjoy social media. I'm just one of those people who gets into ita lot. I've loved it since Bebo and Myspace were the hubs of my world. But it's like most of the things I love there are always some negatives. I love watching Netflix, but if I don't limit the way, the where, and the when, I'd never accomplish anything more than memorizing every one of Chelsea Peretti's lines on Brooklyn Nine-Nine.
I love a good sauvignon blanc. But if I go through a bottle a night, that's going to turn into a life-altering issue real fast. For me, it's the same with Instagram. I have to put a limit on it. I used to be on Instagram constantly, but I restrict it a little more now. I'll post a few times throughout my day, but I won't hit my feed and stare at it while I slip into a drooling daze. I'll do that in the evening, and I'll do it for a maximum of half an hour. I slip up a lot, and I get lost in it from time to time. But as a general rule, at least trying to stick to it has helped me out.
I'm building a couple start-ups. It's a lot of hard work. I'm writing a blog, I'm writing a column for a bunch of different publications, and there's a lot on my plate. I can't afford to f*ck myself by wasting time wishing I was someone elseor comparing my life, my business, and my success to theirs.
This article originally appeared on Medium and was republished with the author's permission. Jon Westenberg advises businesses on how to grow their audience and take control of their future. The views expressed herein are his. Follow him on Twitter.
This article was written by Jon Westenberg from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: What the Media Always Gets Wrong About Weight Loss
description: If youre one of the millions of people struggling to lose weight, the latest news probably isn't helping your motivation much. Im talking about two recently published articles, both backed by rigorous research, that paint a grim picture around weight loss and exercise. But don't throw in the towel just yet. They don't tell the full story.
In case you're not familiar with the articles Im talking about, here's a quick recap:
Article 1: The New York Times
The New York Times article looked at former contestants on The Biggest Loser and concluded that almost all of them regained the weight they'd lost on the show. The article reasons that after drastic weight loss, two things happen that make weight gain almost inevitable:
Resting metabolism decreases (so you burn fewer calories).
Hunger and cravings increase, thanks to plummeting levels of leptin, the hormone that controls hunger.
As long as you are below your initial weight, your body is going to try to get you back, says Dr. Michael Schwartz in the article.
Article 2: Vox
In the second article, writers at Vox claim that exercise does not work for weight loss. It concludes exercise is excellent for health, but it's not important for weight loss by citing 60+ supporting studies. The article reads much like a compilation of what Ive been writing about for years. It even includes some identical messages, such as why counting calories from exercise will sabotage your weight-loss goals and why you should focus on diet, not exercise.Still, I found myself upset after reading both of these articlesnot because of what they said, but because of what they didnt say. They omit half of the story, leaving readers with only one conclusion to infer: Were f*cked! Your exercise has been for naught. And if somehow you actually do lose weight, expect the pounds to creep back on, because youre fighting a losing battle against biology.
If youre like most people who read those articles, you're probably not aware that there are countless people (including yours truly) who have lost weight and kept it off through diet and exercise. Yes, exercise. Some examples include Charles Gross, who once weighed more than 400 pounds, or my client Jeremiah (pictured below), who has lost more 100 pounds. And there are many more. In fact, the Internet is littered with success stories about permanent weight loss.So why do experts paint such a dismal picture around weight loss and the role exercise plays? Are people like Charles or Jeremiah simply special snowflakes? Nope. I know this because Ive interviewed, coached, and examined the data behind thousands of successful dieters, and those who keep the weight off all follow a repeatable pattern (more on this later).
A Little Help From History
To help you understand the difference between these articles and reality, lets go back 200 years, when famed economist Thomas Malthus's research on population growth was concerned with the opposite problem: starvation.
Through his research, Malthus came to the conclusion that humankind would ultimately starve. You see, his equations showed that population growth would exceed food supply, thereby creating an incredibly grim future for humankind. Similar to the outlook shared by todays weight-loss researchers, economists agreed that Malthuss projections were unfortunately accurate. One economist said the outlook was dreary, stolid, dismal, without hope for this world or the next.
Now, Malthuss research wasnt necessarily wrong, but it looked at the world the same way he and other economists always had. This way did not account for the exponential improvement in food production, which has led to our McDonalds-filled, calorie-laden world today. Had Malthus stepped outside the box and accounted for the possible impact of technology, his prediction may have been different.
The dismal views about weight loss presented by Vox and The New York Times are similar to Malthus's conclusion. Both articles use research that is not incorrect, its just shortsighted. More specifically, they're based on the very common, one-dimensional approach to weight loss: simply eat less and move more, a strategy that rarely works. The countless successful individuals who have used a very different approach are then ignored. According to writer and nutrition expert Alan Aragon, the very nature of most research settings could be part of the problem:
Most researchers do not 'live' in the real world. Meaning many diet researchers have little to zippo client experience. They've been completely immersed in the literature and the lab but are oftentimes noobs or complete strangers to the trenches.
These trenches are where Ive learned that, for every transformed individual Ive talked to, exercise has played an important role. But not just not any type of exercise.
The Right Way to Exercise for Weight Loss
Remember those two things that happen in your body after weight loss (slower resting metabolism and increased hunger)? Well, it's true this is often why people regain weight after a diet, as covered in The New York Times article. But exercisethe right kind of exercisecan be a game changer during this period of predisposed weight gain.
Instead of exercising for the purpose of burning calories (the way the Vox article views it), lets say you exercise to build muscle in the form of resistance training. You might gain some fat, but youll also accumulate muscle mass, thereby raising your metabolism.
Working out for the sake of burning calories is like paying off credit card debt. Exercising to build muscle is like paying a mortgage.
If you keep regularly strength training (while also eating smart), you can actually create a metabolic momentum of sorts in which dieting becomes easier and your body slowly increases the amount of calories it utilizes. For example, in the four years I've worked with Jeremiah, he's gone from needing 2,200 calories per day to about 2,500 calories per day. I know, four years is a long time. But if you want make lasting change, you have to be patient.
This strategy isn't new. Its been used in the bodybuilding and evidence-based fitness world for many years, and its just one example of how we can actually control our "dismal" outcome.
Working out for the sake of burning calories (i.e., cardio) is like paying off credit card debt. Exercising to build muscle (i.e., strength training) is like paying a mortgage. By building muscle mass, youre building an asset, not trying to move forward on a metaphorical treadmill.
Voxs article takes a futile calories out view of exercise and concludes that it is not an important factor in weight loss. Like Malthuss prediction, its grim nature is the result of an incomplete story. There's more than one way to exercise.
Both articles aim to correct common half-truths about weight loss, The New York Times shedding light on the fleeting nature of weight loss and Vox correcting our assumptions about cardio. But it takes more than reading a few dozen studies to understand the full picture.
The authors werent deliberately trying to discourage you, but that doesnt make these stories any less damaging. They only presented half-truths, and when it comes to fitness, half-truths are the most dangerous.
Why You Need to Know the Whole Truth
You see, Malthuss predictions wouldve been proven false no matter what people thought. Whether economists believed the world would starve or not, the self-correcting nature of economics would reveal the truth.
Your belief about weight loss, on the other hand, is a self-fulfilling prophecy. Believe that you are doomed by your own physiology, and you will simply become a data point that corroborates the half-true message of todays research. But if you dare to believe that change is possible and seek the insights missed by the aforementioned articles, your personal story will reveal the full truth: Weight loss is possible for anyone.
Richard "Dick" Talens is the co-founder of Minimum Viable Fitness and Fitocracy, one of the most popular fitness tracking sites on the Internet. The views expressed herein are his. For more from Richard, check out his website or follow him on Twitter.
This article was written by Dick Talens from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Shipping Industry Pressured to Set Carbon Targets
description: By Jonathan Saul and Nina Chestney, Reuters
Disagreement among nations means no carbon emissions targets have been set for international shipping, but voices from within the industry are calling for global curbs to be set soon, before countries or regional blocs take matters into their own hands.
The shipping sector, like aviation, was excluded from any target cuts under last year's Paris climate deal, which set a goal of restricting the rise in global average temperature to less than 2 degrees Celsius.Vessels are shrouded by haze at an anchorage area near the eastern coast of Singapore August 21, 2015.
Credit: REUTERS/EDGAR SU
Shipping now makes up around 2.2 percent of world emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2), the main greenhouse gas responsible for global warming, and that share is forecast to rise dramatically if nothing is done to slow it.
The International Maritime Organization, the U.N. agency responsible for regulating pollution from ships, forecasts CO2 emissions from vessels rising anywhere between 50 percent and 250 percent by 2050 in its "business as usual" case, as economies grow and trade increases.
So far, specific targets to curb emissions growth have been blocked by emerging countries like India and Brazil, which expect their shipping volumes to increase over the next decades.
But some shipping companies, especially ones that have invested in newer, more fuel-efficient ships, say the IMO should take action to limit emissions, before regulation is imposed by regional blocs like the European Union or individual states.
A session in late April of the IMO's Maritime Environment Protection Committee agreed only to defer further discussion on emissions to its next session in October. That will be the last chance to come up with targets before the next round of global climate talks, COP-22, the following month in Marakesh.
"The failure to agree a process for emissions reduction puts significant pressure on generating a positive outcome," said Alastair Fischbacher, head of the Sustainable Shipping Initiative, an industry association that promotes efficiency standards and includes the world's largest container shipping company Maersk Line and huge agricultural shipper Cargill.
"The shipping industry cannot go to COP-22 in Morocco without this. Not only will it damage the industrys reputation, it also runs the risk of external regulators taking the matter into their own hands and circumnavigating the IMO, which no-one in the industry wants to see."
Peter Hinchliffe, secretary general of the International Chamber of Shipping, which represents more than 80 percent of the world's merchant fleet, predicted the IMO would deliver a framework for CO2 cuts; the question is when.
"It is the nature of international debate that sometimes it takes longer than some would wish," he said.
Spirit of Paris
According to scenarios drawn up by the IMO, one of the most effective ways to slow the growth of emissions from shipping would be to take other steps across the wider economy to fight climate change, reducing demand for fossil fuel shipments. Oil, gas and coal now make up more than a third of tonnage shipped by sea, and IMO forecasts predict those volumes either to surge or shrink, depending on future action to achieve climate targets.Cargo ships.
Credit: Dirk Dallas/flickr
But the IMO also says steps taken by the shipping industry with the encouragement of regulation, such as improving the efficiency of ships and changing engines to burn lower carbon-emitting fuels such as natural gas, can have a big impact.
Its better-case scenarios include improvements that would see ships become 60 percent more efficient and a quarter of them shift to natural gas by 2050. Even under those optimistic conditions only one of its 16 scenarios forecasts total maritime emissions to fall by then.
The European Commission estimates that air and marine transport, which now jointly account for 5 percent of global emissions, could contribute as much as a third of all emissions by 2050. Last month a group of European lawmakers urged the European Union to take tougher action on the two sectors.
"There is no reasonable excuse to continue exempting aviation and shipping from the international and EU climate policies," the lawmakers wrote. "Such growth (in emissions) will undermine reduction efforts by all countries and other sectors to limit warming to the 1.5/2C agreed in Paris."
Those in favor of stronger targets say firm proposals are likely to be slow-moving through the IMO, given opposition from countries including India and Brazil.
IMO Secretary-General Kitack Lim said it had reached approval for mandatory data collection of fuel consumption by ships, which would "provide a solid basis on which to consider ... whether further measures may be required in future to mitigate GHG (greenhouse gas) emissions from shipping".
"It has been very encouraging to see states which had previously found it difficult to reach binding agreement on climate change measures bring the spirit of the Paris Agreement to IMO," Lim said.
Nevertheless, campaigners want quicker action. Bill Hemmings, of green group Transport & Environment, said the data collection initiative's incremental approach was "a code word for 'do nothing'".
Hemmings said some European lawmakers were likely to propose shipping be included in tougher EU targets.
"That will focus IMO minds if it happens."
In October last year the European Commission called on the IMO to present measures to cut emissions by the end of 2016, which the shipping industry at the time said was "unrealistic".
An EU source said that although the Paris Agreement did not set a specific deadline, it was built on the basis that all sectors would have to contribute to nationally determined emissions targets from 2020. Therefore, the sooner the aviation and shipping sectors could act the better, the source said.
Hinchliffe, of the International Chamber of Shipping, said the industry would support global action from the IMO but oppose unilateral steps by a regional bloc.
"A regional mechanism would be inefficient and would likely inhibit shipping flagged in the region and would stand the risk of destabilizing the trading balance that shipping provides."
Editing by Peter Graff
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Governments Should Study Worst-Case Warming: U.N.
description: By Sebastien Malo, Thompson Reuters Foundation
A United Nations panel of scientists seeking ways for nations to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius should not dissuade governments from concentrating on bleaker scenarios of higher temperatures as well, its former chief said.
Nations should be considering the potential impact of temperature rises of as much as 4 degrees Celsius (7.2 Fahrenheit), said Robert Watson, former head of the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.In this 2006 file photo, Robert Watson (L), World Bank chief scientist, talks about a clean energy study released at the 2006 World Bank/IMF Spring Meetings in Washington.
Credit:REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst
The U.N. panel was assigned to find ways to limit global warming to 1.5C (2.7F) after a 195-nation climate change summit in Paris in December.
Most of those nations signed the climate change deal in April, pledging to seek a 2C degrees limit and make efforts toward a 1.5C level as well.
Some scientists have questioned whether limiting global warming to 1.5C is realistic and if the world's industrialized nations are willing to make such deep cuts in greenhouse gas emissions.
Speaking at a Rutgers University conference with the current IPCC chair, Hoesung Lee, Watson said: "Is it feasible technically? Worth analyzing, basically?"
"I hope we don't lose sight however of what are the impacts of a 3 to 4 degree world," said Watson, who chaired the IPCC from 1997 to 2002.
"The reason is if we don't get the Paris agreement implemented, we may well see 3 and 4 degrees Celsius."
Many poor nations, fearing melting ice will raise sea levels and swamp their coasts, have campaigned for the 1.5C level.
Panel head Lee was steadfast on the merits of studying the 1.5C scenario.
"We have already begun our work," Lee said.
"There is no question whether it is worth pursuing," he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation on the sidelines of the conference.
Calling the consideration and deeper analysis of more extreme global warming "a value judgment," Lee said: "We are not in the position of embarking ourselves in the judgment of addressing the weight of (such) values."
The IPCC is slated to issue its 1.5C special report in 2018.
Last year, average global surface temperatures hit the highest since records began in the 19th century, about 1C above pre-industrial times.
Reporting by Sebastien Malo, editing by Ellen Wulfhorst
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Fracking Hits Milestone as Natural Gas Use Rises in U.S.
description: More natural gas in the U.S. is coming from wells that have been hydraulically fractured than ever before, and frackings share of the countrys gas supply is continuing to rise, according to new data from the U.S. Energy Information Administration.
At the same time, the fracking boom in the U.S. has led to a major boost in natural gas consumption, and for the first time last year, natural gas contributed about the same level of greenhouse gas emissions as coal, the globes largest single source of greenhouse gas emissions driving climate change.
Credit: Bobby Magill/Climate Central
Sixty-seven percent of natural gas produced in the U.S. came from fractured wells in 2015, according to the data. That represented a total of 53 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day, up from 50 billion cubic feet in 2014.
In 2000, only 3.6 billion cubic feet of gas came from fractured wells roughly 7 percent of total U.S. natural gas production that year. About a third of the gas produced in the U.S. is used to generate electricity.
The natural gas and crude oil production boom over the last decade was enabled by fracking the process of injecting large amounts of water, sand and chemicals into wells at high pressure to release crude oil and natural gas locked within solid rock, usually shale.
Credit: EIA
The boom led to the U.S. becoming the worlds largest producer of oil and flooded the market with natural gas, driving down prices. That encouraged utilities to build more electric power plants that run on natural gas instead of coal.
The shale gas boom is one of the main reasons that more electricity was generated with natural gas than coal for the first time last year, and 2016 is poised to be the first full calendar year that natural gas is expected to eclipse coal as the nations chief source of electricity.
{related}
Though natural gas emits about half the carbon dioxide emissions as coal, EIA data show that carbon dioxide emissions from the two energy sources have begun to nearly match each other in the U.S. as natural gas use spikes and coal consumption falls.
Coal consumption in the U.S. emitted about 1.5 billion metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent in 2015 while at the same time natural gas use emitted 1.48 billion metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent last year.
Even though emissions are now about the same, natural gas contains more energy and can power more homes than coal.
You almost get twice as much energy for the same amount of emissions, EIA analyst Perry Lindstrom said. For the amount of energy consumed, natural gas produces fewer CO2 emissions.
(Your browser doesn't support iframe)Shale gas and oil production is also susceptible to methane leaks and possible groundwater contamination, concerns that led New York state to ban fracking last year.
Methane is about 86 times more potent than carbon dioxide as a climate change-driving greenhouse gas over a period of 20 years. A Harvard University study published in February showed that the U.S. may be responsible for up to 60 percent of the growth in global atmospheric methane concentrations, possibly because of the nations shale gas boom.
If (methane) leak rates are any greater than tiny, there is probably not a climate benefit to using natural gas, said Duke University atmospheric scientist Drew Shindell. Fracking can be worse in some cases as sometimes small companies don't pay much attention to leaks, but the leak issue applied to all sources, storage, and transmission.
Reining in methane leaks from oil and gas wells is a top priority of the Environmental Protection Agency, which is expected to announce a new regulation aiming to control leaks from new oil and gas wells this month.
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Why You Might Pay A Lot More For Fuel (Because People Are Suing To Save The Planet)
description: Traveling through the Middle East recently, I heard unprecedented pessimism from colleagues in government and the private sector about the health of economies that are mostly dependent on the flaccid price of oil. In Bahrain, for instance, construction cranes still punctuate the dusty skyline, but headlines are dominated by budget cuts and layoffs. To be sure, the world will continue to consume vast quantities of oil for the foreseeable future, including by the Formula 1 race cars that roared into the island kingdom last month, but is there something in the wind to suggest the real price is far higherand that we might soon be paying it?
Private plaintiffs and government attorneys have sued tobacco companies for decades, holding them accountable for the harms their products caused and for the deceptive smoke they blew in the faces of health officials and consumers alike. The result was billions of dollars of settlements and judgments, which caused the price of cigarettes to rise exponentially to cover those added costs. In 1970, a pack of smokes cost 38 cents. By 2014, it had risen to more than six bucks. Inflation alone would have raised the cost to only about $2 and change, so most of that bump was the cost of accountability.
So what does this have to do with the price of oil and fuels? California's Senate Bill 1161, called The Climate Science Truth & Accountability Act, would allow state and local governmentsand private citizens who believe they have been harmed, including shareholders of oil companiesto sue those companies for tobacco style deception about the dangers of their products. It would cover actions as far back as 30 years, potentially creating billions of dollars of liability.
Flickr user Naotake Murayama
Companies like Exxon/Mobil are already being investigated by New York's Attorney General, who has demanded documents related to corporate-funded climate change research. Attorneys general in California, Massachusetts, and the Virgin Islands have launched similar investigations.
Then add the Securities and Exchange Commission, which recently ruled that shareholders may file resolutions demanding oil giants ExxonMobil and Chevron return capital to shareholders before it's too late. Citigroup estimated that up to 40% of today's investments in oil resources would qualify as "stranded" as long as oil remains under $75 per barrel.
Let's be clear about one thing: these initiatives are not meant purely to be punitive. Our survival on this planet is at stake. Since 2009, scientists have been studying the carrying capacity of the planet and found we are at, or near, passing several tipping points, meaning we won't be able to sustain future populations of plants, animals or humans. "We can no longer, for instance, attempt to solve one problemsuch as biodiversitywithout considering other issues such as food production or climate change," the scientists have warned. In short, our fossil fueled joyride is threatening our food and water supply, something a planet with a rapidly growing population can ill-afford.
And speaking of petroleum powered joyrides, much talk at the Bahrain racetrack has focused on what that sport is doing to go green. In 2010, F1 announced goals to cut its carbon footprint, which appear to have succeeded: a 24% reduction of emissions thanks to things like improved fuel economy and energy-capture braking. In fact, that may be the biggest contribution of motor sports to sustainability. The major automakers have learned from racing, transferring technology to everyday cars including hybrid engines, lighter materials, and more efficient tires. When applied to millions of cars on the road today, these technologies have likely saved millions of gallons of fuel and tons of emissions that would otherwise have been pumped into the atmosphere.
Don't get me wrong, I hope motor sports one day are powered by clean fuels and electric motors, but in the meantime, we should prepare for the cost of our transportation fuels, wherever we might use them, to race to new highs in the very near future.
This article was written by Terry Tamminen from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Think You Come Out of the Shower Squeaky Clean? Think Again
description: Nothing beats a long, hot shower at the end of a tough day. But after you watch this BuzzFeed video, showers will no longer seem so serene. Turns out bacteria pops up all over the place (your showerhead, soap, and loofah, to name a few), and it can even stick around on your skin instead of washing down the drain. In this case, ignorance isn't bliss: The video also offers lots of quick ways to clean up your shower.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The Unexpected Hangover Cure That Works Better Than Pedialyte
description: A nasty hangover is natures way of saying you need to grow up (and stop drinking so much). Surprisingly, one of the best ways to combat the misery is to return to a childhood favorite: apple juice.
In a recent study, diluted apple juice was more effective at treating dehydrated children than electrolyte-packed sports drinks.1 No, these kids weren't reeling from having one too many (they were 5 years old or younger), but heavy drinking also leads to dehydration, so experts speculate the findings apply to hangovers as well. Next time you celebrate with too much green apple CROC (we see you DJ Khaled), follow it up with a glass of good old-fashioned apple juice.
(h/t Mic)
Works Cited
Effect of Dilute Apple Juice and Preferred Fluids vs Electrolyte Maintenance Solution on Treatment Failure Among Children With Mild Gastroenteritis: A Randomized Clinical Trial. Freedman SB, Willan AR, Boutis K. JAMA, 2016, Apr.;():1538-3598.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: These Super-Efficient Solar Panels Are Light Enough To Install Almost Anywhere
description: Sunflare is a Los Angeles startup that's making solar panels smaller and lighter. That sounds pretty good, but the real innovation comes when you see what you can do with them.
Unlike heavier panels, which require proper construction techniques to hang, Sunflare's panels are so light that the company claims they can be hung with "little more than a 3M tab on the side of buildings." Add to that the fact that they're flexible and you have a panel that can quickly be adapted to fit into any space that gets the sun.
The Sunflare panels do without a glass substrate, allowing them to be flexible. They're a variant the CIGS (copper indium gallium selenide) type solar cell, which already requires only a thin film to construct. The problem so far with CIGS has been the cost of manufacture, compared to regular crystalline silicon panels, which are used almost everywhere else. Sunflare makes some bold claims: It says it has solved the production costs, while making a panel that's 65% lighter and able to produce 10% more energy throughout the day, thanks in part to better efficiency in low light at dusk and dawn.
"To make the most efficient solar power the cells must absorb as much light as possible while reflecting as little light as possible," says Sunflare founder Len Gao. "Sunflare's cells produce less glare and capture more light."
The improved absorption combines with better high-temperature performance to increase efficiency yet further, generating more power at midday when temperatures are hottest.
Gao also says that Sunflare's manufacturing process is greener than that used to make other panels. In addition to using less chemicals in the manufacture (no lead or cadmium, for example), the factory recycles spent materials, and also recycles its water.
The most practical difference, though, is also the most mundane aspect. The Sunflare panels can be deployed on roofs without having to reinforce themyou just stick them up there and wire them into your system. You don't need to reinforce the roof, or build out frames on which to mount them. That could make for big savings, opening up the possibility of solar to many people who wouldn't normally consider it.
These are all big predictions for a small company. Whether Sunflare delivers on its promises remains to be seen.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Second Warmest Start to the Year on Record for U.S.
description: While the weather is chilly and rainy along much of the East Coast, the Lower 48 as a whole is having its second hottest year to date, thanks in large part to major western warmth, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration announced Friday.
That warmth extended all the way up to Alaska, which is seeing its warmest year on record and temperatures far above normal.How temperatures across the U.S. differed from normal during January-April 2016.
Credit: NOAA
These record- and near record-setting conditions are part of the larger pattern across the globe, with Earth on pace to set yet another record for warmest year. The year is well ahead of 2015 so far, which only just took the record for hottest year from 2014. While a major El Nio has provided a small boost to global temperatures, the main contributor is human-caused global warming, scientists have said.
The overall mild conditions for the U.S. this spring follow a record warm winter and autumn, with much of that warmth centered out West.
For January through April, the average temperature for the contiguous U.S. was 4F (2.2C) above the 20th century average, the second highest departure in records going back 135 years.
Every state was warmer than average over that period, though none of the Lower 48 states individually set a record. Washington, Oregon, and Idaho each recorded their second warmest April in the books, which led to early snowmelt across the region.
{related}
Snowpack levels went from above-average to below-average for many locations over the course of the month, NOAA climatologist Jake Crouch said in an email. This could contribute to water resource and drought issues going into the dry season.
Several locations, including Seattle and Portland, did record their warmest April on record; the average temperature for Seattle this April
56.7F (13.7C)
was warmer than the normal May average of 56F (13.3C), according to the Seattle National Weather Service office.
There was a robust ridge of high pressure that was situated over the West Coast during much of April that contributed to the warm month, Crouch said. That same warmth extended up into western Canada, contributing to the conditions that set the stage for the intense wildfire that burned through parts of Fort McMurray, Alberta.
While April started out cool for much of the eastern half of the country, temperatures rose for the later part of the month, making the average close to normal.
Overall April seemed relatively cool in the East, especially following the really warm March, but in the grand scheme of the 122 years of data it was near average for many, Crouch said.
Alaska continued its streak of exceptional warmth, with a record high April temperature that was 10F (5.6C) above the average from 1925-2000.
Average temperatures in Alaska for the period January-April since the 1920s, where 2016 is well above all other years.
Click image to enlarge. Credit: NOAA
Anchorage also had its warmest April on record, coming in at 2.8F (1.6C) warmer than the record set last year. Those balmy temperature contributed the earliest ever ice break up observed on the Yukon River and the earliest start to the growing season in Fairbanks, NOAA reported.
The warmth this year so far in Alaska has been extraordinary, Crouch said. The record warm April really was an exclamation point on the first four months of 2016.
The mild April was a continuation of the exceptional warmth Alaska has seen all year. For the year-to-date, it measured an average temperature 11.4F (6.3C) above the 1925-2000 average. That bested the previous January-April record, set in 1981, by almost 3F (1.5C).
Temperatures for the next three months are expected to continue to be above average in Alaska, according to NOAA seasonal forecasts.
A drastic pattern change would have to occur for the state to drop from the record warm levels, Crouch said.
Those same forecasts also put greater odds on warmer-than-normal temperatures across a large horseshoe-shaped swath of the country stretching from coast to coast and across the northern tier of the central U.S.
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: How Well Do You Know Your Body?
description: How many times do you blink in a minute? Is your tongue the only place you have taste receptors? How much does your brain weigh? Chances are you've never asked yourself these questions before, but now you need the answersand this video from BuzzFeed delivers.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Chilling Video Shows Wildfire Damage in Fort McMurray
description: The Fort McMurray fire is still burning out of control, but footage is beginning to emerge of the destruction left behind in northern Albertas largest metro area.
As of Friday morning, the wildfire that flared up in northeastern Alberta on Tuesday had spread to 247,000 acres or an area the size of Dallas, according to the Capital Weather Gang. The wildfire is expected to be one of the most costly natural disasters in Canadas history. At least 1,600 structures have been destroyed or damaged. The fire has also forced some oil sands extraction operations to go on hold, costing the Canadian economy millions of dollars a day.
(Your browser doesn't support iframe)Officials ordered 80,000 residents to evacuate ahead of the fire and so far, not a single direct fatality has been reported. Royal Canadian Mounted Police have started escorting evacuees who fled north on Tuesday back to the south toward Edmonton and Calgary where more resources are available. On the way, theyll pass through a Fort McMurray very different than the one they left a few days ago.
Video shot by firefighters in Fort McMurray reveals the unsettling scenes those evacuees will face in a town reshaped by the forces of the inferno that engulfed it.
Houses have been reduced to smoldering piles of ash and burnt out husks. Footage shows cars piled on top of each other, possibly as a result of explosions or powerful winds driven by the flames themselves. In some areas, flames are still burning while a pall of smoke hangs over the entire town.
Another #fortmcmurray fire pick. This was in the morning. No wind and still cool. #fire #craziness
A video posted by @milochristie on May 4, 2016 at 6:34pm PDT
Analysts at Aon Benfield, a reinsurance company, expect that economic losses from the fire will exceed $1 billion. The Bank of Montreal suggested the fire could cause $2.6 billion (CAD) in losses if a quarter of Fort McMurraywas destroyed, making this the most costly disaster in Canadian history. That number doesnt include the cost of disrupting the oil sands industry, a major force in the Canadian economy.
The current record holder for costliest disaster is the 2013 Alberta floods, which inundated parts of Calgary and caused $1.65 billion in economic losses.
The risk of more damage isnt over yet. Extreme fire conditions are expected to continue through this weekend. Hot temperatures and gusty winds could wreak havoc with the efforts of the 1,100 firefighters attempting to contain the blaze.
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Getting Over Phobias Might Be As Simple As Taking a Pill
description: Imagine a spider: Eight beady eyes and eight gangly legs that leave goose bumps as they crawl up your skin. It's easy to see why so many people are afraid of the creepy crawlers, but spiders dont have to stay the stuff of nightmares.
Researchers have found that propranolol, a medication traditionally used to treat heart disease, reduces or eliminates even the strongest phobias: heights, spiders, flying, public speakingall gone. It's not exactly as simple as popping a pill and kissing your fears good-bye. First the fear has to be triggeredfor example, people with arachnophobia are handed a tarantula. Then they take a dose of propranolol and go to sleep. When subjects wake up, they are able to pet and hold the tarantula they couldnt even look at a day ago.
This news sounds like something out of science fiction, but it has to do with the principle of memory consolidation. (While studies have recently confirmed the drug's effectiveness on humans, scientists have known about its memory altering capabilities for decades.)
The treatment is a potential godsend for the nearly one in three people who will suffer from an anxiety disorder at some point in their life. The New Republic has a full story that dives into the research on this wonder drug.
I Want to Learn More
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Poor Areas Of Cities Have Really Terrible Mobile Service
description: Trying to get a good cell signal? If you live in a low-income neighborhood, you may be stuck with two bad choices: live with bad service at the same high prices or pay a premium to buy specialized equipment that pays your way out of the problem.
Within cities, there are systematic disparities in mobile service quality, and these are divided along income lines.
In the U.S., federal and state governments are actively working to reduce the digital divide and bring Internet access to poor and rural areas. But smartphone Internet servicethrough cell towers rather than fixed-line broadbandis increasingly becoming the most important means of Internet access for young and low-income populationsand it's not very good.
That rural areas have bad cell coverage isn't a surprise to anyone who loses their signal on a long road trip. It's hard to get telecommunications companies to invest in infrastructure in sparsely populated places. But according to a new study from researchers at Cornell University and the U.K.'s Imperial College Business School, it turns out that even within cities, there are systematic disparities in mobile service quality, and these are divided along income lines.
The researchers, looking at crowdsourced data through a mobile signal strength app, found that compared to affluent neighborhoods, low-income regions have 15% less coverage and two fewer telecom base stations installed for an equal number of potential subscribers. Low-income subscribers tend to live at least three times further from a base station, they found.
It's not shocking that telecom operators invest less in poor neighborhoods, but it's the first time this kind of analysis has been done to prove that they do so. (One reason is that telecoms treat most information related to base station locations and network performance as trade secrets.)
"We think the data reflect profit-maximizing business decisions by telecom operators who expand network and quality of coverage in areas where it is the most profitablehighly populated and affluent neighborhoods have higher willingness to pay and thus are more likely to subscribe to premium services," says Aija Leiponen, an associate professor at Cornell's Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management.
The study also looked at the use of femtocells, which are specialized equipment that can be installed at a customer's expense that boosts signal strength in a small area through a connection to a fixed-line broadband network. They found wealthier pockets in poorer areas were compensating for poor service by using femtocells, which indicated a demand for cell signal that wasn't being met.
The authors said more work is needed to figure out whether the disparity warrants an intervention through government policy-and how costly it would be for operators to provide equal service (with fixed line service, telecommunications companies are required to hook up all residents but they can pass higher costs onto customers). Another option could be subsidies for communities that require femtocells to boost the quality of their service, she says.
"I think we need to study in more detail whether mobile Internet access is indeed essential for lower-income households to find economic opportunities and critical societal information," says Leiponen.
This article was written by Jessica Leber from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Unless Corporate Climate Commitments Are Science-Based, They're Just Marketing
description: Companies have long made commitments to cut their carbon emissions. But, until recently, many of these targets haven't been grounded in science. Their announcement may have sounded impressive. But it may not have reflected the size of a company's emissions, or been aligned with what scientists say we can safely put into the atmosphere.
"Some companies just make a stab in the dark."
That's changing as a result of the Science Based Targets initiative from the Carbon Disclosure Project, the UN Global Compact, the World Resources Institute, and the World Wildlife Fund. More than 150 companies have agreed to set targets that accord with the goal of keeping global temperature increases under two degrees Celsius. And 13including NRG Energy, Dell, General Mills, and Sonyhave already produced a target.
"Some companies just make a stab in the dark," says Cynthia Cummis, WRI's deputy director for greenhouse gas protocol. "They decide to reduce emissions 20% by 2020 [for example] and it sounds credible. Other companies have all their energy-efficiency projects planned, and they say, 'Let's add those together and that will be our target.' That's not going to get us to the level of reductions we really need."
Scientists say we need to emit no more than about 1 trillion tons of carbon by 2045 to stay within the two degree limit. We've already emitted more than half of that.
In signing up to the initiative, companies agree to calculate targets based on one of seven methods. These include reducing emissions in line with internationally agreed "pathways"say, a 70% cut by 2050. Or it could be in terms of GDP: A company works out its percentage of global economic output and matches its target as a percentage of the total limit.
The initiative shows how some companies are ahead of governments in their carbon reduction efforts. None of the country commitments to last year's Paris agreement were conceived with an overall carbon budget in mind. In fact, even if governments follow through on their promises, it's likely emissions will go well beyond the two degree threshold.
Cummis hopes to sign up at least 250 companies by 2018 and for science-based targets to become standard practice. Already some investors are taking science-based targets, or the lack of them, into account when appraising companies. "This is a way [for companies] to differentiate themselves from their competitors and it's becoming a growing expectation from their customers and investors," Cummis says.
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: How Street Art Raises Neighborhood Housing Prices
description: Can street art increase the value of your home? The anecdotal answer, based on many English properties selling for up to double their regular prices thanks to the Banksy murals painted on them, is yes. But now a study has been done to determine what, if any, effect street artand art in generalhas on the property values of entire neighborhoods.
The work, led by University of Warwick postgrad Chanuki Seresinhe, used data from photographs tagged on Flickr to measure the amount of street art in London neighborhoods and compared it to the changes in residential property prices of the same neighborhoods. Because Flickr's photos can include GPS coordinates, along with the date the photo was taken, this is a pretty good way to see changes over time. In this case, the timescale is 2004-2013.
The flakiest part of the study was the reliance on the tag "art" to filter for photos containing street art, although it's hard to think of a better method. Importantly, Seresinhe's study looked at all instances of art in a neighborhood, not only graffiti. The purpose of the study was to find out whether creative work inn general is a factor in transforming poor urban neighborhoods. "Researchers of urban policy maintain that the creative industries are key to building a successful city economy," writes Seresinhe. "Governments around the world make significant investments in the arts in order to incentivize gentrification and regeneration in specific neighborhoods."
1000 Words via Shutterstock
But does it work?
Yes, says Seresinhe's study. "A comparison of the relative change of mean residential property price and the proportion of 'art' images suggests that the higher the proportion of 'art' images, the greater the relative gain in house price."
One test of the method's accuracy is that it works for areas in London already associated with artistic endeavor, like Shoreditch and Dalston, both in East London. These two districts, "exhibit particularly high proportions of 'art'-related photographs, as well as high relative gains in house prices," writes Seresinhe. Anyone who has watched the gentrification of these areas since the beginning of the century will recognize this as something of an understatement.
If you're lucky enough to have Banksy stencil a painting on the wall of your home, you're in for a windfall.
It's not just art in general that is associated with a boost in property prices. If you're lucky enough to have Banksy stencil a painting on the wall of your home, you're in for a windfall, unless the local council cleans it off first. In 2008, a Banksy picture of a rat doubled the price of a derelict pub in Liverpool, England. In 2012, a Banksy mural was stolen, wall and all, from a dime store in London, and appeared for sale on a U.S.-based auction site for a half a million dollars.
In these cases, (and there are many), the paintings are usually ripped from the building they're painted on, often with the cost of the replacement wall assumed by the buyer as a part of the sale. There is some irony in how neatly this mirrors the gentrification of a cheap neighborhood that has been colonized by artists.
Seresinhe herself points out that a correlation between art and house prices doesn't necessarily imply that one causes the other, but taken with the anecdotal evidence that artists really do lead the gentrification process, it seems clear that governments should invest in artistic programs in deprived neighborhoods if they want to stimulate the economy.
Then again, if rising property prices are the result, and the poorer residents are pushed out because they can no longer afford to live there, perhaps the biggest beneficiaries of community arts programs would be property investors.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Tron-Inspired Wheel Makes Your Bike Electric In 60 Seconds
description: It's not uncommon for Americans to own bikes. It's just uncommon that they actually use them for transportation, rather than just an occasional spin around the park. A new design might help get more old bikes out of garages. In less than a minute, the GeoOrbital wheel can convert a bike to electric and make it easier to ride on daily commutes.
The hubless, spoke-less wheelinspired by the light cycles in Tronis filled with a motor, a battery pack, and electronics. Instead of spinning like a normal wheel, the module stays in one place, and small rollers make the rim turn by itself.
Basically, it includes everything that you might get in a fully electric bike, but in a single piece that's simple to install. You pop your old front wheel off, and put this one on. A throttle attaches to the handlebar, and when you need an extra boost of power to get through traffic or up a hill, you push it. The battery can last between 20-50 miles of riding, depending on how much you're pedaling, and the bike can go 20 miles an hour on its own.
"If your goal is to up-cycle your bike into an e-bike, there really aren't too many options out there currently," says co-founder Michael Burtov. "Most existing options are kits, which come with the various separate pieces (motor, battery, controller, throttle) and need to be assembled onto a bike, typically taking an hour or two unless you're well practiced, and requiring some mechanical skills. The new way is to build this into one neat package."
It's also less expensive than most electric bikes, which can cost thousands of dollars. The wheel will retail for around $900, and on the current Kickstarter campaign, the first pledges got a wheel for $499.
It's not the first electric wheel, though the design is unique. Others, like the FlyKly Smart Wheel, or the long-anticipated Catherine Wheel, look more like a traditional wheel. It's a little lighter than the Omni Wheel, a design that also packs everything into the front wheel, in part because the new design uses a lightweight foam tire (which also can't go flat).
While 100 million Americans say they ride a bike at least once a year, only 14 million ride twice a week.
The founders are hoping that it makes more people start to use a bike to commute. "For our team members and beta testers that commute on it daily, they report feeling safer because in many cases you're going at the same speed as cars without any effort," says Burtov. "You can change lanes more easily and accelerate with traffic from a stop. It feels just like riding your bike, only now it has superpowers."
While 100 million Americans say they ride a bike at least once a year, only 14 million ride twice a week. Though bike commuting is growing, it's still less than 1% of all commutes.
Though a few of the electronic components are imported, the rest of the wheel is made in Massachusetts, where the engineers can be present in the manufacturing process and monitor quality. "Too many companies make the cheapest thing that they can, and sell it for the lowest price possible," says Burtov. "They design things to break. We want to be a company that designs things to last."
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This App Knows Exactly Where You Were Standing When You Took A Photo
description: If you show PoseNet a photo, it will tell you exactly where it was taken. That sounds easy in a world where every photograph you snap is tagged with GPS coordinates, but PoseNet doesn't need GPS. Instead, it actually recognizes the scene in the image, and works out where you were standing based on that.
The system is accurate to six feet, and can even tell which way you were facing when you took the phototo within three degrees.
PoseNet, from researchers at the University of Cambridge, uses something called deep convolutional neural networks to do its magic, which is based on the way the visual cortex of animals processes visual stimuli. These networks can be used for image recognition, including picking out faces from a crowd, even when partially hidden or upside down.
The technique has a few advantages over other kinds of image recognition. First, it's fast. Show PoseNet a photo and it will tell you where it was taken within five milliseconds. Next, it's lightweight. The PoseNet system relies on a database of less than 50 megabytes, whereas some rival systems need to store gigabytes of reference photographs, and then process them.
"I believe PoseNet has three main advantages over GPS and related technologies," PoseNet's Alex Kendall tells Co.Exist. "Firstly, GPS requires infrastructure (e.g., the satellites). Secondly, GPS does not give you an estimate of orientation. Third, GPS is often inaccurate, and does not work in indoor environments."
PoseNet needs to be trained first, which involves showing it lots of photographs, which it studies and reduces to a small database. The images need to be labeled with 3-D camera location data, which tells the system which way the camera was facing, but that's common in today's cameras.
Currently PoseNet only works in one part of Cambridge, Englandit's a tech demobut you can try it out yourself. The system was trained using a data set of 12,000 images, covering six scenes around Cambridge University. Because the system is so fast, and the data storage requirements so low, it could easily be scaled for worldwide use. Imagine if this tech was given access to Google's Street View data: You'd be able to show it pretty much any photograph and know instantly where it was taken.
Speaking of Googlethe search company has its own project that attempts to do the same thing: work out the location of a photo just by looking at it. But unlike PoseNet, Google's PlaNet manages to place just 3.6% of images at street-level accuracy. The success rate rises to 10.1% at city level, but that's hardly the "superhuman levels of accuracy" claimed by the PlaNet team.
"Our approach is most likely more accurate as it is trained on a smaller scale than PlaNet," says Kendall. And PoseNet can do something Google's project cannot. "PoseNet is attractive because it is able to estimate the camera's location in metric coordinates. In contrast, PlaNet simply classifies an image into a discrete region."
There are, of course, privacy concerns with such technology. You can scrub the GPS coordinates from your photos easily, and devices like the iPhone remove it automatically when you share an image. But PoseNet needs no such GPS datait just needs the picture and it knows where you are. There's no hiding. Law enforcement is going to love it. The rest of us might think twice about posting all our photos online.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 7 Clean Breakfasts to Brighten Your Morning
description: We spend a lot of time scouring the Web for tasty, trendy, and healthy recipes. It's one of the many perks of working at Greatist. In the process, we come across some amazing resources for easy meals that prove cooking healthy doesn't have to be expensive or a giant time suck. And now, we want to make a habit of sharing them with you!
This week's featured foodie is Alexis of Lexi's Clean Kitchen. After discovering firsthand the healing power of food, she was inspired to create recipes that omit negative health instigators, like gluten, grains, most dairy, and refined sugars, while still delivering serious flavor. Her first cookbook, Lexi's Clean Kitchen: 150 Delicious Paleo Friendly Recipes to Nourish Your Life, will be in stores November 8 and is currently available for preorder. Can't wait? She's shared a few of her favorite breakfast recipes below.1. Banana Mango Smoothie Bowl
This bowl is such a fun way to switch up your standard smoothie breakfast, plus it's totally customizable. Really hungry? Go with lots of toppings.2. Green Goddess Breakfast Salad
Salad for breakfastyou read that right! Get in more greens in the a.m. with this delicious and satisfying dish. P.S. The dressing is so freakin' good.3. Double Chocolate Banana Waffles
Chocolate + banana + waffles. Enough said!4. Sweet Potato BLT Frittata
Perfect for brunch or a meal prep, this fritatta is loaded with delicious flavors. Impress weekend guests or grab and go in a pinch during the week.5. Fluffy Paleo Pancakes
These pancakes are a reader favorite and a favorite in our home. They are the fluffy, classic pancakes you want and remember from your childhood but free of gluten, grains, dairy, and junk!6. Tomato, Potato, and Leek Gratin With Eggs
Flavor town! This breakfast is hearty and flavorful and makes for the perfect weekday or weekend breakfast.7. Coconut Cranberry Protein Bars
Protein bars don't have to be flavorless, and you don't need to spend tons of money buying them. These are delicious and packed with good-for-you ingredients for on-the-go mornings or a quick midday snack.
For more inspiring ideas from Alexis, follow her on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Snapchat, and Pinterest.
This article was written by Lexi's Clean Kitchen from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Get Jealous Of Kids Today With These Photos Of The World's Most Creative Playgrounds
description: At the Fuji Kindergarten, outside Tokyo, the entire school is a playground: It's possible to climb a tree to get to some classrooms, and take a slide to others. From the roofwhere kids play at recessfive-year-olds can look down skylights at friends still in class.
The school, one example of how designers are reimagining the idea of playgrounds, is part of a new exhibit called Extraordinary Playscapes from the Boston-based Design Museum Foundation. The nonprofit chose 41 playgrounds from around the world.
Fuji Kindergartencourtesy Tezuka Architects
"We really just started digging and selecting what we thought were extraordinary stories," says Amanda Hawkins, one of the curators. In Malawi, outside a hospital for disabled children, an old Land Rover and tires were transformed into a place to play. In upstate New York, an High Line-like trail leads visitors on a walk at the level of treetops, past a four-story treehouse made of twigs, to a human-sized bird's nest.
Each of the playgrounds shows that it isn't necessary to keep replicating the standard swing set-and-slide combination that most people grew up with. If cost is an issue, there are low-to-no-budget adventure or nature playgroundsessentially empty lots filled with scraps that kids can hack together themselves. One example is Himmelhj, a natural playground in Copenhagen.
Imagination Playground, New YorkChris Amaral courtesy Rockwell Group
"It's a place where kids can experiment, and build fires, and build with sticks on their own to create their own play experience," says Hawkins.
She thinks creative playgrounds are becoming more common. "There's a lot of appreciation for research that's been done about the importance of play on childhood development and learning," she says. "So I think a lot of play advocates and communities and parks departments are realizing that these post-and-platform structures are not benefitting kids as much as they could be."
The exhibit will be on display in Boston at BSA Space from June through September, and then will travel to Portland, San Francisco, and Chicago.
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: A Cardio Kickboxing Workout Thats Actually Fun
description: Just because a workout is tough doesnt mean it cant be fun. This video is proof. Thirty minutes will fly by during the high-intensity cardio kickboxing class. Youll focus on moves that work your upper body, lower body, and core, while instructor LeJon Guillory motivates you with his high-energy commentary and some LOL prompts.
The video even features a DJ spinning fast-paced pop music thatll keep you pumped up during punches, squats, bobs, and weavesbecause its way more fun to feel like youre on the dance floor than in the gym. Plus, theres no equipment required. Just grab a towel: This one will leave you drenched in sweat (in a good way).
Looking for more short and effective at-home workouts? Grokker has thousands of routines, so youll never get bored. Bonus: For a limited time, Greatist readers get 40 percent off Grokker Premium (just $9 per month) and their first 14 days free. Sign up now!
This article was written by The Greatist Team from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Hurricanes Boost Carbon Storage in Southeastern Forests
description: Hurricanes hitting the Southeast coast can supercharge the regions forests, spurring them to store more than 100 times the carbon released annually by all vehicles in the U.S., Duke University researchers have found.
Rainfall associated with hurricanes acts as fuel for photosynthesis, drastically increasing trees carbon absorption rates, according to a recent study published in the journal Biogeosciences. Forests hit by tropical cyclones account for 9 percent of the warm season forest carbon sequestration in the region, the study said.
Hurricane Jeanne off the Atlantic Coast in 2004.
Credit: kakela/flickr
The researchers studied the Southeast coast because it is the target of more hurricanes and tropical storms than any other part of the U.S. It also harbors massive forests that absorb large amounts of carbon.
Scientists are unsure how a changing climate will affect the intensity and frequency of hurricanes, but studies suggest that the Southeast coast could see more tropical storms and hurricanes in a warming world along with more frequent drought due to warmer temperatures.
{related}
The Duke researchers used computer models to learn how more tropical cyclones and drought could affect the ability of the regions forests to store carbon. It turns out that hurricanes play an outsized part in the Southeasts role in the global carbon cycle, and more hurricanes could mean more carbon sequestration.
The big takeaway here is that tropical cyclones play an essential role in Southeast climate, delivering the precipitation necessary for ecosystem function and to maintain high levels of carbon uptake to offset carbon emissions, said Ana Barros, an environmental engineering professor at Duke University and co-author of the study, published in April.
Dense forests act as carbon sinks
ecosystems that soak up carbon dioxide from the atmosphere like a sponge. Forests store carbon dioxide in their trunks, roots and the surrounding soil, and it stays there until the forest dies or is burned in a wildfire.
All the globes foreststake in about one-third of human fossil fuel emissions each year.
Research shows that climate change may be threatening some of the globes carbon sinks, especially dense ones such as the Amazon rainforest, because variations in climate are damaging some forests ability to store carbon. Drought has also been found to stunt forests ability to sequester carbon in both the Amazon and in U.S. forests because dry conditions hinder tree growth, reducing the amount of carbon dioxide trees can absorb.
During drought, soils, and especially the upper soil layers, tend to dry out and plants become water stressed which results in significantly slower photosynthesis rates, Barros said. A hurricane landfall during a drought period immediately resets soil water availability and photosynthesis rates resume to normal levels.A wetland forest in South Carolina.
Credit: U.S. Department of Agriculture/flickr
When photosynthesis rates increase, so do carbon absorption rates, she said.
One large hurricane can remedy drought conditions and allow for local increases in carbon uptake along their eye-track, she said. But many hurricanes arriving in short succession can remedy drought conditions across the entire Southeast U.S.
William Andregg, an assistant professor of biology at the University of Utah and a research scholar at the Princeton Environmental Institute who is unaffiliated with the study, said the research is very thorough, but the model Barros team used did not account for enough variables.
The study provides a nice illustration of how much the precipitation from tropical cyclones might matter for forest productivity in the Southeastern U.S., he said. I think the net effect of these cyclones on carbon uptake, however, is still uncertain because the models used do not account for loss in leaves, branches, and whole-tree blow-down due to the cyclones.
Andregg said its unclear how the teams results apply to other regions of the globe that are routinely hit by hurricanes because carbon absorption rates depend on how rainy a tropical cyclone-prone region is and how its groundwater may be affected by drought. Typically wet tropical regions may benefit less from hurricanes, he said.
As to how this fits with the broader literature on forest carbon storage and climate change, it is certainly a nice example highlighting some of the positive impacts of extreme events like tropical cyclones, Anderegg said. Still, without accounting for the negative impacts on carbon storage, it's hard to know what the net effect will be in future climates.
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Rumer Willis Has a Powerful Message for the Photographer Who Photoshopped Her Chin
description: Rumer Willis opened up the latest issue of Vanity Fair only to find her chin had been chopped off Photoshopped beyond recognition in a photo she appeared in alongside two of her sisters. The 27-year-old actress (and daughter of Bruce Willis and Demi Moore) shared her reaction to the photo on Instagram, calling the editing a form of bullying and saying, "I love the way I look, and I won't support anyone who would feel a need to change the way I look to make me beautiful." Thats a message we can all get behind!
Check out the now-infamous photo and Willis's response below:
"Any friends [or] fans of mine who posted this I would appreciate if you took it down. The photographer Photoshopped my face to make my jaw smaller, and I find it really offensive for anyone to try and change the way you look so drastically. I love the way I look, and I won't support anyone who would feel a need to change the way I look to make me beautiful. Whether or not they realize it, it is a form of bullying, which I won't stand for."
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Want to Stop Checking Your Phone So Much? Turn Your Screen Gray
description: If you have two opposable thumbs and a smartphone, you're probably guilty of using that wonder of modern technology a little (OK, a lot) more than necessary. This humorous video from The Atlantic explains that color is one of the reasons we constantly feel the need to check our phones. The fact that the number of notifications show up in a red bubble is no accident. Red excites our brains, prompting us to check that notification right away and leaving us wanting more. Luckily if you have an iPhone, there's a way to beat the system: Switch your screen to gray scale. Life is a lot less exciting (and tempting to scroll through) in black and white.
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: You Won't See Birthmarks As Flaws After Seeing These Photos
description: We're taught we should hide birthmarks, especially ones in highly visible places. But one awesome website proves they're something to show off. Paige Lauren Billiot, an actress with a port-wine stain on her left cheek, started Flawless Affect in hopes of redefining what we think of as flaws. Right now the series includes highly stylized photos of Billiot and her friends, but she plans to expand it to include a broad range of so-called flaws, from eczema to anxiety, to show these aren't things we should ever be ashamed of.
Check out photos from the inspirational campaign below:
Photo: Flawless AffectPhoto: Flawless AffectPhoto: Flawless AffectPhoto: Flawless Affect(h/t Self)
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Try This Breathing Exercise the Next Time Youre Anxious
description: Using breathing exercises to reduce stress isn't exactly a new concept, but as this video from Big Think explains, there's a special technique that may work better than deep breathing. It's called the power breath, and you do it by making your exhalations last twice as long as your inhalations. The goal is to fool yourself into thinking youre more relaxed than you actually areotherwise known as "fake it till you make it."
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: So This Is Why You Hate the Sound of Your Own Voice
description: Bad news for anyone who thinks their voicemail sounds nothing like them. That voice in the recording is what everyone else hears. When you listen to yourself talking, the sound waves have to pass through the bones of your skull, not just your ear canals, so it gets muffled and sounds lower pitch than it actually is.
The disconnect between the "you" that you hear in your head and the "you" the rest of the world hears makes most of us feel self-conscious. It's similar to the kind of reaction you have after seeing a photo of yourself that looks different from the person you see in the mirror. If you're one of the few people who love the sound of their voice in recordings, you may have higher self-esteem.
(h/t The Science of Us)
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Growing A Beard Or Cutting Your Hair? Don't Be Mad If Your Kid Freaks Out
description: Kids perceive faces differently than we do. Specifically, they're not great at recognizing a person if their appearance has changed. If you get a haircut, or grow a mustache, an adult who knows you will still spot you. A seven-year-old child, though, will probably be fooled by your "disguise."
A study done at the Ruhr-Universitt Bochum, in Germany, demonstrated that while kids between five and 10 years are pretty good at facial recognition, they're still not as good as the grown-ups. The test put seven-year-olds inside an fMRI scanner, and showed them photographs of people. The pictures came in three sets of six. One set showed the same photo six times over. The second showed different people in each picture. The third set showed different pictures of the same person.
When adults see things over and over, habituation sets in, and our brains pay less and less attention. If we see the same photo six times in succession, our brains stop showing activity. When we see pictures of different people, the brain keeps lighting up, thanks to the new stimulus. But when we see different images of the same person, we only partly switch off.
Kids responded differently. Professor Sarah Weigelt and PhD student Marisa Nordt recorded the brain activity of the youngsters while they looked at the photos, focusing on the the fusiform face area in the temporal lobe, which specializes in facial recognition. They found that when kids look at the different pictures of the same person, they either think that they're all different, or all the same.
"If children see different photos of one and the same person, they appear to say either, this is the same person, or these are two different people," says Weigelt. "There's nothing in between."
This varies from child to child, suggesting that the age range studied by Weigelt and Nordtfive to 10 years oldis the time that kids are developing their facial recognition skills.
Another test also showed surprising results. Both adults and kids were shown pictures of people in profile. Kids are terrible at drawing people in profile, often putting the nose on the side, but still drawing two eyes. The expectation was that kids would develop the ability to read profiles as they got older, but the experiments showed that kids and adults are both bad at recognizing faces in profile.
Today's thinking on how age relates to facial recognition is split into two camps. One thinks kids are done learning these skills by age five. The other says we keep improving until we reach the oddly-specific age of 32. Weigelt and Nordt's results show that we're definitely not done by five years old, but doesn't help with the upper limit. The most interesting part, however, might be the binary aspect of the learning, the fact that kids either recognize all the photos as the same person, or none of them. As somebody who makes a good second income from tricking kids out of their pocket-money at family gatherings, I shall hold onto this fact. It's a potential gold mine.
All Photos:
RUB, Damian Gorczany
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: To Bring Rain, The United Arab Emirates Wants To Build A Mountain
description: What do you do if you have a) a ton of money, and b) a really, really dry country? If you're the United Arab Emirates, the answer is that you build a mountain to bring rain.
The UAE spent $558,000 on cloud-seeding last year, according to Arabian Business. Cloud-seeding involves first finding clouds with weather radar, and then sprinkling them with fine particles to cause precipitation.
It works, but it's not particularly predictable. And before you can seed a cloud, you need to find one. Or make one. That is why the UAE is considering a new mountain to create clouds that could then be seeded for rain. Currently the country is in consultation to see if the project would even be feasible.
Billy Onjea via Unsplash
"What we are looking at is basically evaluating the effects on weather through the type of mountain, how high it should be and how the slopes should be," U.S.-based National Center for Atmospheric Research researcher Roelof Bruintjes told Arabian Business.
Mountains kick up the incoming air, forcing it to rise, and causing clouds to form. The hope is that a properly designed mountain could create enough clouds to reduce the UAE's reliance on desalination. Desalinating seawater costs the country $60 for one cubic meter (around 260 gallons), whereas the same amount gotten by cloud seeding costs just $1.
Of course, mountains aren't easy to build, and there isn't much existing work to draw from to ensure such an expensive project would actually work. And even if it's successful, those clouds will come from water that would have ended up elsewhere, possibly disrupting rainfall in other places.
Building a mountain is also expensive, even for a country as rich as the UAE, and those costs would inflate the price of the cloud-seeding program.
"If the project is too expensive for the government, logically the project won't go through, but this gives them an idea of what kind of alternatives there are for the long-term future," Bruintjes said.
Then again, once the mountain is built, it's done, and the benefits can be enjoyed without further cost. At least until climate changecaused in large part by the oil that made the UAE so richchanges the weather patterns and ruins and whole scheme.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: When the Rains Disappear: Drought Grips Pacific Islands
description: From the vantage point of a boat bobbing on the deep blue waters of Majuro Lagoon, the encircling shores of the Pacific coral atoll are normally verdant with tropical vegetation. But on a recent sailing excursion with friends, Angela Saunders was struck by how brown and withered the island looked.
The vibrant color of all the trees was gone, Saunders, a Majuro-based program manager with the International Organization for Migration, wrote in an email. It was like someone put dampers on the world.
Majuro, capital of the Marshall Islands, is an atoll in the Pacific Ocean with a land area of about 4 square miles. It is home to about 30,000 people.
Click image to enlarge. Credit: Christopher Michel/flickr
It is a scene that is playing out across the hundreds of low-lying islands and atolls scattered across a vast swath of the western Pacific Ocean broadly known as Micronesia. One of the strongest El Nios on record has curtailed the rains that are the lifeblood of most of the regions communities and ushered in an extreme drought that has left inhabitants in a precarious situation.
Wells have become brackish or run dry; the rain barrels that perch on the corners of houses have little or no rainwater left in them. Water rationing is limited to a couple hours a day in some of the worst-hit communities, while expensive reverse-osmosis machines have been shipped out to the most far-flung atolls to make the seawater drinkable. Staple foods like breadfruit and bananas have shriveled on the trees, inedible.
Worries over acute food and water shortages, as well as the spread of disease, have prompted several of the affected island nations to issue disaster declarations in order to receive assistance from the United States and other countries.
{related}
Drought in the U.S. is kind of an inconvenience
but out here its a life-or-death kind of situation, Chip Guard, a meteorologist with the main regional U.S. National Weather Service office in Guam, said.
While El Nio is waning, it will be weeks or months before the rains gradually return to normal levels. Even then, it will take time for crops, rain catchments and groundwater levels to recover, continuing the strain on locals well into the summer.
Every day longer the drought lasts, the more you hear about it, Saunders said. In the store, on the streets.
El Nio Effects
El Nio tends to dry out the islands of Micronesia because it shifts the main area of storm activity in the tropical Pacific eastward and away from the region, following the commensurate eastward displacement of the pool of warm waters that fuel those storms.
The western- and northern-most islands tend to fall into drought first, following the gradual eastward migration of the rains, and stay in drought longer. Palau, the westernmost island chain in the region, to the southeast of the Philippines, was the first to enter into drought conditions last year. As of an April 28 update from the NWS, it was in an exceptional drought, the highest level. Koror, its most populous state, had its driest October-March on record, as did Majuro, the capital of the Marshall Islands, and Yap State, in the Federated States of Micronesia.
While some places have had spotty showers that have provided sporadic, temporary relief, others have fared worse. In February, Richard Heim, a meteorologist with theU.S. National Centers for Environmental Information, rattled off the rainfall record for Wotje, a hard-hit atoll to the north of Majuro: Zero, zero, zero, trace, zero, zero
they are getting nothing, he said.
Although the relationship between El Nio and drought in these islands is well known
which helps governments and aid agencies to forecast and prepare in advance
it is unclear how global warming might alter the El Nio phenomenon in the future.
(Your browser doesn't support iframe)The effects of climate change are of acute concern to island residents, as rising sea levels already eat away at what little land they have and threaten water supplies as overwashing waves that can make groundwater brackish become more common.
While rainfall is overall expected to increase across Micronesia as the planet warms, according to a 2014 report by an Australian-led project looking at climate change projections in the region, that increase is somewhat uncertain. And it is the variability of rainfall, not average rains, that is the main driver of drought there, Sugata Narsey, one of the co-authors of that report and a climate researcher at Monash University, said.
The main source of variability there is El Nio, he said. Some research has suggested that warming could mean more frequent extreme El Nio events, but the link isnt yet conclusive.
When drought does occur in the future, it is possible it could last longer because evaporation will also increase with warming, Michael Grose, a climate researcher with Australias Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, said. This is one of the ways climate change exacerbatedthe current droughtin California.
Surrounded by Water, But None to Drink
It is a cruel irony that, though surrounded by the vast expanse of the largest ocean on the planet, the islands and atolls of Micronesia can run out of drinkable water.
Except for some of the larger islands in the region, such as Guam, most dont have reservoirs to keep water supplies steady and on hand for lean times. (And even those that do have them are seeing well below-normal levels.)
The region of the Pacific Ocean known as Micronesia.
Click image to enlarge.Credit: Wikimedia Commons
Instead, most of the region relies on the near-daily rains of the tropics to maintain the groundwater supplies that feed wells and are caught by the green, high-density plastic rain catchments attached to many homes. But a certain minimum threshold of rain
usually about 4 to 8 inches a month
is needed to maintain viable water supplies. Below that level, drought can set in, and quickly.
The atolls especially are very susceptible to drought, Guard said, because they are too low-lying to have significant underground aquifers.
For those islands that do have wells, the water inside can quickly become brackish during a drought. As freshwater is extracted, the seawater below it creeps upward, Heimsaid. One day the well water is drinkable, the next it turns salty. That leaves a tight window for relief agencies to bring water or reverse-osmosis machines to distant atolls a full days boat ride from the main islands. These outlying atolls also often lack internet and cellular service, making quick communication a challenge.
Really a Struggle
When visiting the outer atolls of the Marshall Islands, Saunders, of the IOM, said that as soon as you walk off the plane, you notice the heat more. There is less shade to sit under and you can really imagine how hard life is for those most affected by the drought.
The Marshall Islands have been hit particularly hard because virtually all of the nations land is low-lying. Of those islands that do have wells, many were too salty to use by early March. Many rain catchments had also run dry by that point.
Dried vegetation on Majuro.
Click image to enlarge.Credit:Karl Fellenius from University of Hawaii Sea Grant at the College of the Marshall Islands
Not everyones water is totally out, but some are and everyone is conserving, Saunders said.
On Majuro, there are 19 water distribution points and a reverse-osmosis machine that generates 25 gallons of potable water a minute and runs 24 hours a day at the College of the Marshall Islands. Island residents have access to tap water for only four hours a week, according to the Marshall Islands Journal. On the outer islands, 32 reverse-osmosis units have been deployed.
This means that people have to walk to these spots to get water, or if they can take a car or a pushcart to carry water, Saunders said.
Each nation has limited resources and it is really a struggle to respond, Guard said, which is why aid from the United States and agencies like the Red Cross is critical. The Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia and Palau have all declared states of emergency or disaster to enable that aid, and last week, President Obamadeclared a state of disaster for the Marshall Islands, allowing for FEMA support. The IOM has helped provide reverse-osmosis units, collapsible jerry cans, and soap to residents.
As ground and surface water have dried up, so have key food crops. Staple food sources like taro, breadfruit, banana and coconut are for the most part no longer edible, Guard said in an email. This makes food security a critical issue, especially for outlying islands.
The Marshallese are extremely resilient people
that is how they have survived for thousands of years on these small islands."
The spread of social diseases like conjunctivitis has also been a concern, as people conserve what little water they have for drinking and cooking at the expense of hygiene. Advisories have also been put out in some locations to boil water in order to prevent the spread of gastro-intestinal illnesses.
Such precautions will likely remain in place for several weeks or months to come, because while El Nio is petering out, rains are expected to stay below normal through the late spring and early summer. But gradually, El Nios grip will weaken, and the rains will slowly return from south to north, east to west, reversing their disappearance of several months ago.
But even when the rains do return, it will take time for catchments, groundwater and crops to recover. And that return is not without its own problems
the mosquitoes that spread diseases like dengue fever and Zika virus tend to be more widespread after a major drought, Guard said.
These hardships are something that the people of the region are accustomed to, though, and they have pulled through similarly deep droughts in the recent past.
The Marshallese are extremely resilient people
that is how they have survived for thousands of years on these small islands, Saunders said. They cope, they manage, but it is not easy.
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Jane Jacobs Was Right About What Makes A Great City And Mobile Phone Data Proves It
description: In her 1961 book The Death and Life of Great American Cities, the urban theorist and author Jane Jacobs wrote about what makes cities dynamic, safe, and humane. Responding to what she saw as negative trends in American urban planning (including plans to remake her native New York), she proposed that physical environments need to meet four conditions.
They needed to have: 1) mixed use neighborhoods, with residential, commercial, and industrial buildings; 2) small blocks that promote walking 3) a mix of old and new buildings that cater to high- and low-rent tenants, and 4) sufficient density to create a critical vital mass. If cities miss any one of these elements, a neighborhood could fail.
Jacobs was influential in stopping the redevelopment of Toronto and parts of New York City. But critics complained that her theories were not founded in any actual evidence: Her ideas seemed true, but you couldn't prove it. Well, now it may be possible. New research using mobile phone data as a proxy for vitality shows that the design of cities has a strong bearing on activity, and that Jacobs was largely right in calling for certain urban conditions to be met.
Marco De Nadai and Jacopo Staiano, two researchers from Italy, argue that mobile phone data is a useful and cost-effective way of tracking whether cities are vibrant. Their aim is to replicate research carried out in Seoul using in-person survey data, but to achieve the same results more cost-effectively. Whereas that attempt to "operationalize" Jacobs's ideas took 10 years, their research was completed in three months.
De Nadai and Staiano took six months of mobile phone data for six Italian citiesRome, Naples, Florence, Bologna, Milan, and Palermotracing the location of mobile links to the internet on city maps. Then, as a proxy for urban diversity (say, the land use mix), they used data from census and land records, and Foursquare archives.
The research finds that Rome and Milan have completely different land use mixes, which leads to different outcomes. Milan is diverse. Rome is more homogeneous with districts that are only residential, commercial, or industrial. "Consequently, in Milan, vitality is experienced only in the mixed districts," the authors write.
The Italian cities meet Jacobs's criteria for short blocks that promote walking. The cities have "dense streets, which, in fact, slow down cars and make it easier for pedestrian to cross, creating what Jane Jacobs called the 'sidewalk ballet'," the paper says. "This 'ballet' goes beyond simple pedestrian activity. It is about informal contacts and public trust."
In an interview, De Nadai and Staiano say their method could be used to understand whether projectssay, building a new park or pedestrianizing a certain areahave had the desired effect. "Using this methodology it would be possible to quantify the effect of interventions. After ten years, you could say whether it was a good decision or a bad decision, not as a matter of interpretation, but because of the data," they say.
And which Italian cities best meet Jacobs's rubric for a vital city? They say Milan and Turin exemplify it best. Palermo the worst. But then all six Italian cities are likely more to Jacobs's idea of an ideal city than some car-centric, big-block, new-build American ones.
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 25 Runners Share the Biggest Mistakes They Made as Beginners
description: Running seems easy enough: Just grab a pair of sneakers and put one foot in front of the other, right? Well, anyone whos struggled to get through a mile or even the first five minutes (yep, weve been there) knows its not quite that simple. The concept of running for fun or even a social activity can be mysterious. And setting a personal record in a race? That seems like its just for the pros.
If youve ever considered joining the sweaty, endorphin-fueled tribe of runners but are even the tiniest bit intimidated at the thought of running a 5K or figuring out what the heck a fartlek is, were here to help. We asked now-seasoned runners to confess the biggest mistakes they made as newbies to the sport, so you can avoid them as you begin pounding the pavement.
1. Only Running
During my first two months of marathon prep, I didnt incorporate any other form of training besides running. My legs were constantly sore, and I started to hate running. I realized I needed to run less and incorporate more cross-training into my schedule. Alyssa Arnold, marathon finisher
2. Not Moving Post Workout
My biggest regret was plopping down on the couch and not moving after my first 10K. My legs got so stiff I could barely walk for a few days, and stairs were torture. Ive learned to keep the blood flowing by walking, gentle stretching, and foam rolling in the hours after a hard run. Its really helped my recovery! Jen Batista, avid 5K and 10K runner training to conquer the half-marathon
3. Eating New Foods Before a Run
I tried a new breakfast the morning of a long run. I forgot to buy bananas for my usual bagel, peanut butter, and banana breakfast, so I improvised. I was cramping after the first 45 minutes and vomited later on. Christopher Lopez, multiple marathon finisher and co-leader of The Rise NYC4. Being Too Ambitious
I got excited and signed up for a half-marathon with a few more-experienced runner friends, but I wasn't adequately prepared and didn't train efficiently. I ended up with blisters the size of small children on my feet. I couldnt wear shoes for two days! Cali Lavey, recreational runner
5. Forgetting to Take Rest Days
Training too much and not resting enough zapped me for months. I was exhausted, and my stoke levels for running were at an all-time low. Ive since learned to run, rest, and be patient more than being dramatic and drastic. Dominic Grossman, professional runner for Injinji
6. Ignoring Your Form
I didnt do enough form work and strength training until I got a few injuries. Now I actively do a lot of form drills and strengthening of the hips and glutes to balance out my natural tendency to overpronate. Marnie Kunz, CEO of Runstreet and run coach
7. Trying to Race Every Run
When I first started running, I tried to PR [run a personal record] every time I stepped out the door and do speed work on the treadmill as often as possible. It worked great for a couple of weeksuntil I got a stress fracture. Ron, runner for 14 years
8. Skipping Leg (or Hip) Day
I had IT Band syndrome all through training because I didn't do any hip strengthening. When I tried to keep running with my weak hips, I eventually ended up with a stress fracture in my back. On top of good form, strength training is crucial. Meredith Harclerode, two-time marathon finisher9. Believing Your Sneakers Are Immortal
I only bought one pair of sneakers to train for my first marathon, thinking their shape deteriorated based on how long you owned them, not how many miles you run in them. On my final 20-mile training run, I had so much swelling and pain in my feet I had to stop. After a doctor-ordered MRI, I discovered my sneakers had been dead for over a month. I then had a choice: to run the marathon on dead shoes or buy brand new ones. I opted for new shoes, but next time I train for a marathon, I will have a couple of shoes in rotation! Kate Barry, four-time half-marathon finisher, one-time marathon finisher
10. Refusing to Stop
After weeks of barely being able to run due to IT band pain, I lined up for the San Diego marathon. When I found myself hobbling at a 20-minute per mile slog, I still refused to stop. I thought, Runners dont quit; we push through! As a result of my "powering through" to the finish, I couldnt run for six months. Now I know that one race or run isnt worth months of frustration. Amanda Brooks, eight-time marathon finisher, personal trainer, and author of Run to the Finish
11. Not FuelingCarefully
I ran a military-style race and brought a goo packet along for fuel. It exploded when I opened it mid-race, which made everything sticky and smelling like a sour apple for five miles. Gross. Lavey
12. Waiting to Get Pain Checked Out
Ive always been athletic and Ive never been badly injured, but one day I felt a slight pain in my knee. I ignored it for a month until I realized I was having a hard time putting weight on my right leg. I finally went to a doctor and found out I had an IT band issue. It took four months of weekly physical therapy to heal. I shouldnt have waited so long to get it checked out. I put a damper on my training, and it ended up taking longer to heal. Arnold
13. Blindly Following Trends
I bought minimalist shoes without knowing what minimalist even was; I just knew people liked the shoes. What happened? You guessed it: I ended up injured. User TheRunningTroll on LetsRun.com14. Letting Your Playlist Get Stale
Music helps set the pace of your run and makes it more enjoyable. For every race or tough run, I learned I need to update my playlist so I can look forward to new songs that help push me to the finish. Whenever I forget, I can noticeably see my pace and attitude decline. Arnold
15. Not Hydrating Properly
I decided to go out for a run during the hottest part of the day. At the time, I told myself that it would be refreshing to sweat a little, but I didnt bring adequate hydration. I returned feeling completely rundown, dehydrated, and fatigued. If you must go out on a run during unfavorable weather, wear proper attire and bring enough water to keep you feeling strong. Sarah Robertson, Marketing Education Coordinator at Precor and recreational runner
16. Failing to Switch It Up
It took me six years to realize that I actually got better at running when I was running longer distances. I started out running shorter distances and wasted a couple years trying to conquer the mile. User X Trackster on RunningAhead
17. Using the Same Shoes for Every Run
I ran my first and only road marathon in a pair of very structured, overbuilt, and cushioned trail shoes. I had no idea what I was doing, but I thought I needed the extra protection to save my knees. In retrospect, I realize why I felt slow and sluggish! Joe Grant, Buff USA Ultrarunner
18. Thinking Resting Is Enough
After experiencing some pain in my right knee during a half-marathon, I took off for a couple of weeks. When I started long-distance training again, I had the same issue. I realized I couldn't fix it by just resting. Now that I know how to stretch properly, most of my IT troubles are fading away. Mary Rose, recreational runner and triathlete-in-training
19. Not Familiarizing Yourself With the Route
I have gotten lost and misled more times than I can recall, so if something sounds off or looks wrongespecially on trailsgo back to where things looked right and start again. Michael Wardian, runner for Injinji
20. Treating Running Like Other Sports
My biggest mistake was treating running like soccer practice: If I wasnt exhausted by the end of practice, I felt as though I didn't work hard enough. Id run all of my runs at 80 percent effort, or the equivalent of what I now call tempo runs. I wasnt warming up to the pace or cooling down effectively. User stadjack at RunningAhead
21. Failing to Take Advantage of PR Opportunities
I did not strike when the iron was hot. I was at my peak fitness during a period, and now I regret deeply not trying to PR across the board. Seth Ariel Green, former Division III collegiate runner
22. Not Valuing Recovery Runs
Recovery runs should be done at an easy, moderate pace. My biggest mistake in my early years of running was doing too many fast workouts and letting individual runs turn into mini races themselves. X Trackster
23. Forgetting Anti-Chafe Cream
..especially down there. During the Ultra-Trail du Mont-Blanc ultramarathon, I had to use mud in my nether regions. Wardian
24. Overlooking Safety Measures
I forgot to change the batteries in my head lamp before a race that required me to run in the dark. It cost me a lot of time. Michele Yates, Ultimate Direction run ambassador
25. Not Having an Exit Plan
I did a long run without a subway card or money and ended up getting stuck in the rain with no way to get home. I had to sit and wait until the rain let up enough to see. Another time, I got lost and ended up running an extra eight miles(!) because I forgot my subway card. Kunz
This article was written by Erin Kelly from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Clever New Business Makes Art Studios Affordable In San Francisco
description: San Francisco's insane rents have squeezed artists and galleries out of spaces that, in some cases, they've rented for decades. But a new business found a clever way to help art stay in the city: a complex of art studios and galleries will be subsidized by on-site, high-end art storage for rich collectors.
"The Bay Area, and San Francisco specifically, was in real and serious danger of losing a large part of its cultural capital," says Deborah Rappaport, who founded the Minnesota Street Project with her husband, venture capitalist Andy Rappaport. "That was just not okay."
The Rappaports are philanthropists, but they wanted to solve the problem with a self-sustaining business not donations. All profits from their services for collectors will keep rents low for everyone else 32 permanent artists, dozens of visiting artists, 10 art galleries, and an arts education nonprofit.
As collectors themselves, they realized that they could offer a different kind of service for other collectors. "We can offer a smaller, more personalized program to folks, that they'll pay for, and the profits from that business can then help support the whole rest of the business," she says. "It's like a business that has several lines: This is our luxury line, and it supports the discount line."
Built in old warehouses in the city's Dogpatch neighborhood, the complex was also able to keep costs lower because it's in an area that's zoned for light industry. Art businesses qualified, but some other types of businesses, or apartments, might not.
"That means that we could come in, we could identify spaces that would work for us, and we were not in most cases having to complete against people who wanted to re-entitle those spaces for residential or office use," says Rappaport. "Which doesn't mean it was inexpensive, but it does mean it wasn't as crazy as it could have been."
The design of the new studios and galleries also helps make things more affordable. When the art studios open in June, artists will share access to a wood shop, kiln, a printing lab, space to stretch canvases, and room for other things that take a lot of room but artists don't need to do all the time. That meant the studios themselves can be smaller. Galleries share kitchen space, restrooms, and a packing and shipping room for art.
"In a standalone gallery, all of those things take up spacethat the gallerist has to pay for," she says.
The complex will also make money by offering a couple of art studios to companies that want to send an employee to be surrounded by working artists. The first tenant will be Adobe. "They're paying a premium to be there, because that's one of the things that we're using to help keep the studio prices as low as we can to the artists," Rappaport says.
It doesn't solve one major problem: Artists and people working in galleries still need to be able to afford a place to live, in a city where an average one-bedroom apartment goes for close to $4,000. While Rappaport is involved in other efforts to help artists get more access to live-work space, the bureaucracy involved in that process takes time.
"We needed to do this fast," she says. "We were losing folks. And the thing that we could do quickly was studios, which we understand doesn't solve the housing problem, but at least possibly makes the artists' costs of doing business a little bit lower."
The first art galleries opened in March, and the rest of the spaces will open throughout 2016. It's already inspiring people in other cities, like New Haven, that are also struggling to retain artists. Others in San Francisco are also considering building similar businesses in the same neighborhood.
"We've been as transparent as possible about how we have done this, and that has led at least some other people to say 'Huh, we could take our slice of this problem, the part that we have some passion around, and we could maybe figure out a different way to solve it'in a for-profit model and not a nonprofit model," she says. "And that's been really gratifying."
Photos: Minnesota Street Project. Renderings: Jensen Architects
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The Best Way To Improve London's Air? Get Rid Of More Cars
description: London's air is filthy, killing 10,000 people a year. And the only way to fix it is to face up to the fact that there's too much traffic and do something about about it.
London's Cycling Commissioner Andrew Gilligan makes several recommendations in an article for London's Evening Standard newspaper. The most controversial-sounding, echoing the London mayor's suggestion, is that the city should increase its congestion charge, the $17-per-day levy on vehicles entering the center of the capital. And the funny thing is very few people seemingly disagree.
Gilligan's argument has one main point: Better bike infrastructure is good for everyone, car drivers included. After all, he says, "Everyone who starts cycling is someone who's no longer taking up space on the bus, or the Tube, or anything like as much space on the roads."
Flickr user David Holt
London is in the process of launching several "cycling superhighways," long-distance, segregated bike lanes with protection at intersections and bike-friendly traffic light sequences. The first, in the Vauxhall neighborhood, has already spurred a 73% increase in the number of people cycling over the bridge, writes Gilligan.
The arguments against the superhighways are those we've heard over and over, every time roads are repurposed for vehicles other than cars:
Some people think traffic is like rainwater and the roads are the drains for it. If you narrow the pipe, they say, it will flood. If you block one road, they say, the same amount of traffic will simply spill over to the nearest easiest routes.
But in real life, once the builders have finished, the spill never actually happens. The pipe doesn't flood; some of the water goes away instead. Because traffic isn't a force of nature. It's a product of human choices. If you make it easier and nicer for people not to drive, more people will choose not to drive.
More than a decade ago, London replaced 250 miles of road with bus lanes. The complaints came, but what happened is that cars didn't gridlock. The buses got quicker, journeys were faster, and after a few months, says Gilligan, "traffic levels plummeted. Everyone benefited, including the people who carried on driving."
I lived in London in 2003, when the congestion charge was introduced. Back then there were almost no bike lanes, and the center was choked with traffic moving at slower than walking speed. When the charge started, my bus commute time dropped to as little as 20 minutes. Previously, the five-mile journey lasted a frustrating 40 minutes to an hour.
Today, according to Google Maps' transit directions, the journey is back to its old slow duration. In fact, the fastest way seems to be by bike, with the five-mile journey taking an estimated 35 minutes.
As the cycling superhighways come online, more people will cycle, but that's still not enough. Today the main causes of congestion in London are a 25% drop in gas prices and 40,000 new Uber cabs. What London, and every large city, needs is fewer cars.
Flickr user Garry Knight
One way to do that is just to make things difficult for drivers. For instance, Regent's Park, one of London's biggest green spaces, is also one of its most-used traffic routes into the center. Surprisingly, a new plan to reduce traffic through the park is supported by Londoners almost 2:1.
So if the locals support cutting traffic, and if turning road space over to non-car forms of transport makes things easier for everyone, including car-drivers, who exactly is opposing the repurposing of roads? Mostly business-interest groups, but even they support London's bike lanes in principle.
What we might find is that, just like on the Internet, there's a lot of noise from a vocal few, without much actual opposition. After all, the people who shout the loudest are usually not the most numerous.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Why This Christian University Requires All Students To Wear A Fitbit
description: Colleges are all about preparing students for the working world. So now that major employers, from Bank of America to Target, require employees to wear fitness trackers, it makes sense that universities would follow along.
Professors will determine whether students have met their university-mandated 10,000-steps-per-day fitness requirement.
Oral Roberts University, a Christian university in Oklahoma, announced earlier this year that it would require incoming freshman to wear Fitbits, given professors access to step count and heart rate data of their students. Though students can opt out, the default is that each student will wear one, and this will allow professors to determine whether students have met their university-mandated 10,000-steps-per-day fitness requirement.
The privacy and security questions are immediate with this kind of data collection. Will math professors know when students pretend they are sick, but really went out for a jog or took a nap? The answer is, for now, no. Only the relevant health teachers have access to the data, which is fairly limited. For 50 years, the school has required that students meet a daily fitness goal but previously their progress was self-reported, says Mike Mathews, ORU's chief information officer. The Fitbits will simply automate the process, he says, and allow students to better track their progress.
"We're only collecting steps and heart rate, that's it. Everything else we consider intrusive at this point," says Matthews.
Still, there are a lot of interesting questions that can be asked with a wider range of Fitbit data. Matthews says student groups have already formed and want to correlate sleep patterns to grades on tests. But the school hasn't authorized that kind of research on a larger scale.
"Is there any evidence that if you cram for a test, that you're going to get better scores? Probably not," Matthews says "This system makes it possible to start monitoring that . . . but we chose not to at this point."
"We're only collecting steps and heart rate, that's it. Everything else we consider intrusive at this point."
Other schools, though, are monitoring this kind of information. For example, researchers at the University of Notre Dame are enrolling student volunteers in a four-year study to look at similar kinds of questions, including the relationship between students' networks of friends and their health and sleep patterns.
What's most interesting is that Fitbits aren't the only example of data that ORU is working with. The school works with the education software company D2L, which runs the "learning management system" that students and faculty use. D2L has programs that it claims can predict whether a student will fail a course before the first day of school with 92% accuracy. After a few weeks in the class, the software can more often than not correctly estimate the student's exact letter grade. The idea is to provide a red flag as early as possible to students, faculty, and administrators when there is trouble. Overall, ORU says these systems can help the school improve graduation and retention rates, especially among lower-income and first-generation students who tend to drop out more. But whether these kinds of systems might guide students to take easier classes is an open question.
"I'd be hard-pressed to say education wants to be Big Brother in any form or fashion, but the fear may be there."
"We've been a weird spot in education for a very long time where we're kind of guessing at what has an impact," says John Baker, CEO of D2L. The company, in its labs, is in the early stages of testing how emerging wearable devicessuch as brain wave sensorscould be used in education.
Matthews envisions a future with an education-focused wearable that could help students put together all their own data. Would this be the day university become Big Brother? He says no: "I'd be hard-pressed to say education wants to be Big Brother in any form or fashion, but the fear may be there. We're really trying to help people succeed and place them in the right job."
"The hope is better learning outcomes, better health, better spirit in this case. How do you pull the data together to give them the right advice at the right time to guide them?"
This article was written by Jessica Leber from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Zip Line Isn't Just A Tourist Attraction: It Takes You Back In Time
description: Jacqui Yorke didn't know if she was going to do it until she got harnessed up on the zip line. At any moment, she thought she might back out.
"I'm not the most adventurous. I'm more tranquil," as the British mother of six describes herself. But her family was all there cajoling her to go, and she figured that if she didn't like the sensation, she would keep her eyes closed and zone out the way she did when her family took her along on roller coasters.
As it turned out, she only kept her eyes closed for a second or two, and when she opened them the view was "stunning."
"It's exhilarating. There's no other word for it," she recalled. In a little under a minute, she traveled 2,360 feet from a hill above the village of Sanlcar de Guadiana across the Guadiana River to arrive in another village, Alcoutim, sliding over the landscape at around 50 miles an hour. When she landed, she had also traveled back in time by an hour. One village is in Spain and one village is in Portugal, and the two countries are in different time zones.
Riders of Limite Zero, an unorthodox economic development project, get a helmet and gear at the bottom of the hill on the Spanish side before they're driven up a steep and curving dirt road to the departure point: a modest, open-air platform with expansive views.
This all doesn't sound like your typical economic development growth project, but that's exactly the point, according to the man behind the wire, David Jarman.
When she landed, she had also traveled back in time by an hour.
For the past decade, the British expat has lived on the Spanish side of the river, and there has always been talk of building a bridge to the other side. For now, there's just a ferry. The hope on the economically depressed Spanish side was that a bridge might funnel off visitors from the more prosperous Portuguese Algarve region. Many families from elsewhere in Europe, particularly the U.K. and Germany, vacation in the Algarve.
By contrast, in Spanish Andalusia, Jarman said, "Many years ago, the principal economic activity was mining. That's fallen into decline." He describes a trajectory familiar to many towns, an economic downturn contributing to a shrinking population and empty storefronts. "The large majority of younger people, for a career future, they had to leave, and they've gone to Seville and Madrid or abroad," he says. "People survive on very little."
He'd always felt the traditional, whitewashed village, with a population of just under 300, had tourist potential, but it needed a way to attract people a little off the beaten track.
"I was aware of the zip line industry," he says, "that it was a growth industry. Always, the mantra is faster, higher, longer."
He thought if he could get the permissions for a zip line across the border, the peculiarity of that and the "time travel tourism" could offer something unique enough to induce people to make the trip. (He believes Limite Zero is the only currently operating border-crossing zip line, though not the firstthat honor belongs to a project that temporarily linked Zimbabwe to Mozambique.)
Jarman hoped that once visitors came for the zip line, perhaps they would take in a little more of the region. The zip line's launch point is just below the remains of a 17th-century fort that the Spanish government has restored.
He also hopedthough this has not yet materializedthat more spin-off businesses would open to capitalize on the visitors' presence and offer them other services.
A passport isn't required to cross the Spanish-Portuguese border, but launching a business that spans both countries still came with a host of challenges.
He thought if he could get the permissions for a zip line across the border, the "time travel tourism" could offer something unique enough to induce people to make the trip.
"Both Spain and Portugal are renowned for their stifling bureaucracy. So I effectively had to deal with a double dose," says Jarman.
In all, launching the zip line took four years, five architects, and engineers from both countries. The involvement of a French company meant technical documents had to be translated into three languages. To help finance the project, which costs a quarter million dollars, Jarman took out a 100% mortgage on his own property.
"Like anything that takes an awfully long time, one has moments of frustration and disappointment, but I always believed that it would become reality," he says.
After finally launching, Limite Zero now employs a staff of five, including Jarman. They include one person who lives on the Portuguese side of the river. Jarman says he sometimes commutes home by zip line. An independent photographer also works with the company.
At peak season, they operate seven days a week. The crossing costs 18 euros, which includes a four-wheeler ride up to the platform where the zip line begins, and the return ferry from Portugal to Spain.
Yorke, the fearful flyer, confirmed the zip line had drawn her family somewhere they likely would have overlooked. "It's a quiet area," she says. "If you're not looking for it, you could normally drive straight through."
This article was written by Emma Jacobs from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Millennials Are Now The Largest Generation--Get Used To It
description: If you were born between 1981 and 1997, you're part of the largest generation now living in the United States. Millennials recently passed baby boomers (born 1946 to 1964) as the biggest generational group, according to Pew Research.
More than 75 million Americans were aged 18-34 (Pew's definition of millennial) in 2015, compared to 74.9 million who were aged 51-69 (baby boomers). Millennials are expected to peak in number at 81.1 million in 2036, after which the generation's mortality rate is expected to surpass the rate of immigration for that age group.
Generation Xaged 35-50 in 2015is smaller than the boomer or millennial generations. Its span is just 16 years, not the 17-year span millennials get. And, the U.S. birth rate was slightly higher in the 1980s and 1990s than in the late-1960s and 1970s.
Millennials have been cast as the do-gooding, car-agnostic, entitled, wellness generationsome of which might even be true. Other analysis shows that millennials are, in fact, not so different from generation X, or that it's not useful to lump 75 million people into the same pot.
Still, the size of the millennial cohort makes it hard to ignore. Increasingly, millennials will take the reins of business, government, and other organizations, dictating trends from the boardroom as much as they've dictated them with their shopping habits and dating preferences. If you're one of the people whose been worried about millennials, you've missed your chance to stop themthey're now in charge. But don't get too comfortable: Generation Z is right behind them.
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 11 Mediterranean-Inspired Dinners to Spice Up Your Weeknight Routine
description: The Mediterranean diet has been in the spotlight for a while due to its cancer-fighting and heart-healthy benefitsand it's not going anywhere anytime soon. In fact, one recent study found it could also have the potential to slow down aging and reduce bone loss.
Rather than become a full-fledged convert, though, you can dip your toe in the Mediterranean water with these flavorful dinners. Try them anytime you're in the mood for a healthy, delicious bite.
VeggiePhoto: Ambitious Kitchen1. The Easiest Chopped Chickpea Greek Salad
Enjoy all the flavors of Mediterranean cuisine in this simple salad. Olives, feta, tomatoes, onion, garlic, and a lemon dressing make up the bulk of the dish, while spices add even more pops of flavor. Add optional quinoa for a more substantial meal.Photo: Pinch of Yum2. Mediterranean Quinoa Bowls With Roasted Red Pepper Sauce
We'll say it: Everything is better in a bowl. This Mediterranean quinoa variety is no exception. The roasted red pepper sauce jazzes up other ingredients you probably already have in your kitchen: olives, feta, cucumber, and quinoa.Photo: Food, Faith, Fitness3. Mediterranean Grilled Avocado Stuffed With Chickpeas and Tahini
One look at this meal and you probably would have pinned instantly without even realizing it's also vegan and gluten-free. Cucumber, tomato, and crispy grilled chickpeas are packed into healthy fat-filled, grilled avocados. Drizzle with creamy tahini for a dinner you'll be thinking about all day long.Photo: Naturally Ella4. Mediterranean Flatbread
Make a dinner for two in 25 minutes flatpun intended. This flatbread is topped with veggies, including artichokes, tomatoes, and roasted red peppers.Photo: Wendy Polisi5. Quinoa Falafel With Yogurt Tahini Sauce
Make this gluten-free and vegan falafel completely from scratch using quinoa and garbanzo beans along with a slew of spices. We love the versatility falafel allowsstuff them into a wrap or plop atop a salad. Don't forget the tahini!Photo: Minimalist Baker6. Baked Falafel Burgers
If frying isn't your jam, try baking your falafel as this recipe directs. Use just 7 ingredients and fix these mouthwatering creations that clock in at nearly 10 grams of protein and 5 grams of fiber per burger.Photo: Healthy Happy Life7. Sweet Potato Falafel Chimichurri
Not only is this dish a beauty to look at, the flavors will leave you super satisfied. And as if the sweet potato falafel wasn't enough to excite your tastebudscheck out the chimichurri sauce made with pumpkin seeds. You can have this vegan-friendly dinner ready in 45 minutes.
MeatPhoto: The Mediterranean Dish8. Mediterranean Grilled Chicken and Dill Greek Yogurt Sauce
Get the grill ready! This recipe will blow your bland chicken breast version out of the water. Keep in mind, you'll want to marinate these in the fridge overnight or, at the very least, two to four hours before grilling.Photo: Le Creme de la Crumb9. Easy Chicken Gyros With Tzatziki Sauce
Need a quick meal everyone will love that you can whip up in 20 minutes? This is your ticket. Keep things simple with chicken, veggies, Greek-styled flatbread, and a tzatziki sauce.Photo: Jessica Gavin10. Mediterranean Spiced Salmon and Vegetable Quinoa
Have this whole dish ready to serve in 30 minutesimpressive for something that looks like you ordered it at a restaurant. This salmon and quinoa combination packs a serious protein punch: nearly 42 grams per serving!Photo: Hapa Nom11. Greek Burger With Tzatziki, Tapenade, and Feta
Add a twist to summer barbecuing with this recipe that combines all your favorite Mediterranean flavors in one bun. Fix the patty with lamb, beef, or turkey and dash on the tapenade and tzatziki for an entre you'll definitely want to make more than once.
This article was written by Heidi Pashman from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 11 Mediterranean-Inspired Dinners to Spice Up Your Weeknight Routine
description: The Mediterranean diet has been in the spotlight for a while due to its cancer-fighting and heart-healthy benefitsand it's not going anywhere anytime soon. In fact, one recent study found it could also have the potential to slow down aging and reduce bone loss.
Rather than become a full-fledged convert, though, you can dip your toe in the Mediterranean water with these flavorful dinners. Try them anytime you're in the mood for a healthy, delicious bite.
VeggiePhoto: Ambitious Kitchen1. The Easiest Chopped Chickpea Greek Salad
Enjoy all the flavors of Mediterranean cuisine in this simple salad. Olives, feta, tomatoes, onion, garlic, and a lemon dressing make up the bulk of the dish, while spices add even more pops of flavor. Add optional quinoa for a more substantial meal.Photo: Pinch of Yum2. Mediterranean Quinoa Bowls With Roasted Red Pepper Sauce
We'll say it: Everything is better in a bowl. This Mediterranean quinoa variety is no exception. The roasted red pepper sauce jazzes up other ingredients you probably already have in your kitchen: olives, feta, cucumber, and quinoa.Photo: Food, Faith, Fitness3. Mediterranean Grilled Avocado Stuffed With Chickpeas and Tahini
One look at this meal and you probably would have pinned instantly without even realizing it's also vegan and gluten-free. Cucumber, tomato, and crispy grilled chickpeas are packed into healthy fat-filled, grilled avocados. Drizzle with creamy tahini for a dinner you'll be thinking about all day long.Photo: Naturally Ella4. Mediterranean Flatbread
Make a dinner for two in 25 minutes flatpun intended. This flatbread is topped with veggies, including artichokes, tomatoes, and roasted red peppers.Photo: Wendy Polisi5. Quinoa Falafel With Yogurt Tahini Sauce
Make this gluten-free and vegan falafel completely from scratch using quinoa and garbanzo beans along with a slew of spices. We love the versatility falafel allowsstuff them into a wrap or plop atop a salad. Don't forget the tahini!Photo: Minimalist Baker6. Baked Falafel Burgers
If frying isn't your jam, try baking your falafel as this recipe directs. Use just 7 ingredients and fix these mouthwatering creations that clock in at nearly 10 grams of protein and 5 grams of fiber per burger.Photo: Healthy Happy Life7. Sweet Potato Falafel Chimichurri
Not only is this dish a beauty to look at, the flavors will leave you super satisfied. And as if the sweet potato falafel wasn't enough to excite your tastebudscheck out the chimichurri sauce made with pumpkin seeds. You can have this vegan-friendly dinner ready in 45 minutes.
MeatPhoto: The Mediterranean Dish8. Mediterranean Grilled Chicken and Dill Greek Yogurt Sauce
Get the grill ready! This recipe will blow your bland chicken breast version out of the water. Keep in mind, you'll want to marinate these in the fridge overnight or, at the very least, two to four hours before grilling.Photo: Le Creme de la Crumb9. Easy Chicken Gyros With Tzatziki Sauce
Need a quick meal everyone will love that you can whip up in 20 minutes? This is your ticket. Keep things simple with chicken, veggies, Greek-styled flatbread, and a tzatziki sauce.Photo: Jessica Gavin10. Mediterranean Spiced Salmon and Vegetable Quinoa
Have this whole dish ready to serve in 30 minutesimpressive for something that looks like you ordered it at a restaurant. This salmon and quinoa combination packs a serious protein punch: nearly 42 grams per serving!Photo: Hapa Nom11. Greek Burger With Tzatziki, Tapenade, and Feta
Add a twist to summer barbecuing with this recipe that combines all your favorite Mediterranean flavors in one bun. Fix the patty with lamb, beef, or turkey and dash on the tapenade and tzatziki for an entre you'll definitely want to make more than once.
This article was written by Heidi Pashman from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 11 Mediterranean-Inspired Dinners to Spice Up Your Weeknight Routine
description: The Mediterranean diet has been in the spotlight for a while due to its cancer-fighting and heart-healthy benefitsand it's not going anywhere anytime soon. In fact, one recent study found it could also have the potential to slow down aging and reduce bone loss.
Rather than become a full-fledged convert, though, you can dip your toe in the Mediterranean water with these flavorful dinners. Try them anytime you're in the mood for a healthy, delicious bite.
VeggiePhoto: Ambitious Kitchen1. The Easiest Chopped Chickpea Greek Salad
Enjoy all the flavors of Mediterranean cuisine in this simple salad. Olives, feta, tomatoes, onion, garlic, and a lemon dressing make up the bulk of the dish, while spices add even more pops of flavor. Add optional quinoa for a more substantial meal.Photo: Pinch of Yum2. Mediterranean Quinoa Bowls With Roasted Red Pepper Sauce
We'll say it: Everything is better in a bowl. This Mediterranean quinoa variety is no exception. The roasted red pepper sauce jazzes up other ingredients you probably already have in your kitchen: olives, feta, cucumber, and quinoa.Photo: Food, Faith, Fitness3. Mediterranean Grilled Avocado Stuffed With Chickpeas and Tahini
One look at this meal and you probably would have pinned instantly without even realizing it's also vegan and gluten-free. Cucumber, tomato, and crispy grilled chickpeas are packed into healthy fat-filled, grilled avocados. Drizzle with creamy tahini for a dinner you'll be thinking about all day long.Photo: Naturally Ella4. Mediterranean Flatbread
Make a dinner for two in 25 minutes flatpun intended. This flatbread is topped with veggies, including artichokes, tomatoes, and roasted red peppers.Photo: Wendy Polisi5. Quinoa Falafel With Yogurt Tahini Sauce
Make this gluten-free and vegan falafel completely from scratch using quinoa and garbanzo beans along with a slew of spices. We love the versatility falafel allowsstuff them into a wrap or plop atop a salad. Don't forget the tahini!Photo: Minimalist Baker6. Baked Falafel Burgers
If frying isn't your jam, try baking your falafel as this recipe directs. Use just 7 ingredients and fix these mouthwatering creations that clock in at nearly 10 grams of protein and 5 grams of fiber per burger.Photo: Healthy Happy Life7. Sweet Potato Falafel Chimichurri
Not only is this dish a beauty to look at, the flavors will leave you super satisfied. And as if the sweet potato falafel wasn't enough to excite your tastebudscheck out the chimichurri sauce made with pumpkin seeds. You can have this vegan-friendly dinner ready in 45 minutes.
MeatPhoto: The Mediterranean Dish8. Mediterranean Grilled Chicken and Dill Greek Yogurt Sauce
Get the grill ready! This recipe will blow your bland chicken breast version out of the water. Keep in mind, you'll want to marinate these in the fridge overnight or, at the very least, two to four hours before grilling.Photo: Le Creme de la Crumb9. Easy Chicken Gyros With Tzatziki Sauce
Need a quick meal everyone will love that you can whip up in 20 minutes? This is your ticket. Keep things simple with chicken, veggies, Greek-styled flatbread, and a tzatziki sauce.Photo: Jessica Gavin10. Mediterranean Spiced Salmon and Vegetable Quinoa
Have this whole dish ready to serve in 30 minutesimpressive for something that looks like you ordered it at a restaurant. This salmon and quinoa combination packs a serious protein punch: nearly 42 grams per serving!Photo: Hapa Nom11. Greek Burger With Tzatziki, Tapenade, and Feta
Add a twist to summer barbecuing with this recipe that combines all your favorite Mediterranean flavors in one bun. Fix the patty with lamb, beef, or turkey and dash on the tapenade and tzatziki for an entre you'll definitely want to make more than once.
This article was written by Heidi Pashman from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The App That Finally Stopped Us From Hitting Snooze
description: The Rock Clock
We know, we know, the snooze button actually ruins our sleep, but we cant seem to stop hitting it every morning. In our bleary-eyed state, those 10 extra minutes (or 40 if we hit snooze again and again) seem so glorious. Weve tried everything to stop ourselves, from an alarm clock that rolls off our nightstand to one that forces us to do bicep curls before it turns off, but nothing worked until we discovered the Rock Clock.
The free app (available on iOS and Android) doesn't have a snooze button, forces you to set a goal for yourself, and adds a serious dose of motivation from the one and only Dwayne The Rock Johnson.
When you open the Rock Clock, you're prompted to pick a goal. We chose one that was specific (run 10 miles this week) and one that was general (spend more time with friends). Once youve got your goal, set a time frame to complete it (you can also opt for no end date), choose your wake-up time (if youre particularly masochistic, choose Rock Time, and wake up at the same time as Johnson, usually before 5 a.m.), and select an alarm tone (many showcase The Rocks surprisingly good voice). The next day youll be greeted by your goal, words of wisdom from Johnson, and no option to snooze. The first morning we still felt sluggish and annoyed, but by the third day, we actually looked forward to our morning wake-up call.
I Want This!
This article was written by The Greatist Team from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: How the Dairy Industry Convinced Us We Need to Drink Milk (We Dont)
description: Got milk? Let's check the fridge, but why are we still asking that question? The Dietary Guidelines for Americans recommends three servings per day; however arguments against dairy are mounting. We can get the same nutrients from fruits and veggies, milk products don't protect against fractures, and one quarter of Americans cant even digest dairy. This video from Vox explains how dairy became a cornerstone of the American diet, and why you don't actually need it.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Coral Deaths Threaten Coasts With Erosion, Flooding
description: Colorful corals draw snorkeling tourists to natural marine playlands along the Florida Keys, Mexican Riviera Maya and northeastern Australia, and new research shows the flailing ecosystems they underpin also protect beachfront hotels from erosion and floods.
As coral reefs the world over bleach from warming waters, dissolve from acidification and are attacked by diseases and pests, scientists are discovering the critical roles that they play in breaking destructive swells before they reach coastlines.Coral reefs protect Caribbean coastline from erosion and floods caused by waves.
Credit:Guilln Prez/Flickr
Coral reefs reduce the heights of waves by a little more than two-thirds on average worldwide before they crash over coastlines, research published this week showed.
Coral reefs are incredibly important, said Mike Beck, a Nature Conservancy and University of California, Santa Cruz marine scientist who helped analyze a global body of research dealing with the wave-tempering powers of individual shoreline habitats. They break that wave energy.
Published in the journal PLOS One, the research illuminates a hidden cost of the ongoing losses of reefs that shelter shorelines throughout balmy coastal regions.
{related}
Reefs ease the pounding of coastlines by powerful waves, helping to keep valuable shorelines intact. They also reduce flooding from tropical storms by reducing waves amid storm surges.
Salt marshes have similar effects as coral reefs, the analysis showed, though they tend to grow at sites where waves are smaller and less powerful. Mangroves and seagrass and kelp beds were found to reduce wave heights by about a third.
The research was based on analysis of a new database that was produced by the scientists, using data from 69 monitoring projects in coastal habitats, including mangroves, salt marshes, coral reefs and seagrass and kelp beds around the world.The database and the study were produced through the Science for Nature and People Partnership, an initiative coordinated by conservation groups and an ecological analysis center at the University of California, Santa Barbara. The database also includes data from 52 habitat restoration projects.
The fact that theyve done this for as many sites as they have is, in my book, impressive, said Erika Lentz, a U.S. Geological Survey geologist who wasnt involved with the research. This stuff is really hard to quantify.
In the Lower 48, Florida in particular is ringed by mangroves, marshes and other coastal ecosystems, and parts of it are protected by Americas largest barrier reef. More research is needed to determine how the regions shores could be affected by deaths of the Florida reef tracts corals, said Brian Haus, a professor in the University of Miamis ocean sciences department.
If you took away our fringing reefs in Florida and in the Keys there would definitely be a big impact, said Haus, who wasnt involved with the new study. But were not like some of these really vulnerable Pacific Islands, where they get huge incoming wave energy.
More data from individual ecosystems and restoration projects could help scientists and coastal planners figure out how to best to manage shoreline habitats and project impacts from their losses.
We find that reefs are highly effective, but there are very few projects that provide information about their effectiveness, said Siddharth Narayan, a University of California, Santa Barbara researcher who led the study.Coral reefs can cause swells to break before they reach shore, reducing their power by the time they reach land.
Credit:Storm Surfers 3D/Red Bull Content Pool
Reef management has recently become a global concern, with surveys showing 93 percent of the Great Barrier Reef bleached amid a pulse of record-breaking warm El Nio waters. The Coral Seas surface waters were heated by nearly 2F in March by global warming.
Similar bleaching has been reported throughout the Caribbean and elsewhere in the tropics. About one-sixth of corals died worldwide following the first global bleaching epidemic in the late 1990s. Worldwide bleaching hit again in 2010.
As the Great Barrier Reefs ailing corals struggle to draw food- and color-producing algae back into their tissues, theres more hinging on their survival than the rich fisheries, tourism jobs and natural wonderment they provide.
The Australian state of Queensland would have a different looking coastline if the reef did not exist, said Rob Beaman, a marine geologist at Australias James Cook University.
The Great Barrier Reefs shallow reefs act like a porous breakwater, dampening the energy of oceanic swells and long-fetch wind waves, Beaman said.
If the Great Barrier Reef largely dies during the decades ahead, as many scientists fear, it would leave behind reefs of algae-covered coral skeletons that would continue to reduce waves. The skeletons would stop growing and begin breaking down, though, even as climate change makes seas rise and storms fiercer.
The new study also analyzed the cost-effectiveness of coastal restoration projects, showing it can be two to five times cheaper to restore a salt marsh or a mangrove than to build an underwater breakwater using rubble or concrete.
Coral reefs were found to be more expensive to restore than other coastal ecosystems, showing the economic value of protecting them in the first place.
Reefs are being restored by rearing corals in nursery-like settings and planting them in the wild, and by placing hole-filled concrete among them to provide habitat for fish.A marine biologist inspects bleached coral in American Samoa this year.
Credit:XL Catlin Seaview Survey
Reducing impacts from fishing, pollution and other biological stresses can help corals recover from bleaching and storms. So, too, would slowing global warming, which countries are aiming to do through a United Nations treaty that encourages voluntary pollution reductions.
Beck is working on a project in Mexicos Riviera Maya to restore parts of the Mesoamerican Reef, which stretches from the Yucatan Peninsula to Honduras.
Despite the many maladies afflicting reefs, Beck says theyre in better shape than other coastal ecosystems, such as mangroves, hundreds of thousands of acres of which continue to be bulldozed or chopped down worldwide every decade.
What weve seen from recent work on coral reefs is that if you manage other stressors well, we can get reefs to recover, Beck said. We found if you reduced fishing and you reduced pollution, that the reefs bounce back. Theyre adapting, as well. Theyre fast-adapting organisms.
Even as some of the worlds greatest biological treasures seem poised to collapse under pressures from climate change and other threats, Beck remains optimistic that the critical roles they play will prompt communities and industries to invest in their survival.
They provide such a hugely important role in protecting people and property, we can find ways to finance their management and restoration, Beck said.
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Here's Why You Crave Chocolate but Not Celery
description: The sense of betrayal we feel when staring into a suddenly empty Pringles tube is almost as palpable as the inevitable stomachache. So why do we feel the impulse to eat, even when were not hungry? This video from SciShow explains there's a difference between hunger and cravings.
Hunger sets in when your stomach is empty (you knew that!). Your blood sugar drops, and your body pumps out the hunger hormone, ghrelin, telling you it's time to eat.
Cravings, on the other hand, are almost entirely psychological. So next time you find yourself staring longingly at the newest ice cream shop in town, realize that even though you want three scoops, one will probably satisfy your mental itch.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This App Helps Cyclists Avoid A City's Most Polluted Streets
description: As if having to deal with distracted drivers and even-more distracted pedestrians wasn't dangerous enough, cyclists also have to suck in the exhaust fumes of the cars that choke our city roads. But if you ride in Toronto, you can use a handy new tool to plan the cleanest route from A to B, although it will seldom be the most direct.
The irony of bike lanes is that they are almost always on busy roads, because those are the roads where we need more protection. But bike lanes also attract cyclists, which means that infrastructure designed to protect us is also forcing us into some of our cities' dirtiest air.
Civil engineering professor Marianne Hatzopoulou, of Toronto University, studied the problem by fitting air monitors to cyclists and measuring the results of riding down 380 miles of Montreal bike lanes. Then she did the same for Toronto, in a study that monitored the air quality in summer and winter, only using cars instead of bikes. The cars drove for six hours a day, in two three-hour stints, and Hatzopoulou took the data and turned it into an online appthe Clean Ride Mapperwhich lets you plan the cleanest route through the city.
The cleanest route isn't always the quietest. The architecture of the streets makes a big difference, with pollution building up between tall buildings and dissipating better in more open areas, even though the traffic is denser. That's why Hatzopoulou's map is helpful, even if you know the city well. It shows both the fastest route and the cleanest, so you can choose your trip to balance the two. In fact, for frequent cyclists, the most useful part of the map might be the overlay which shows the levels of ultra-fine particles. Thus, you can update your own internal bike map to avoid the worst roads and favor the cleanest.
The real problem, though, is cars in cities. No matter how much we encourage cycling, or other forms of city-friendly transport, there are still too many cars. "We're encouraging densification and also encouraging all modes of active transportation," Hatzopoulou told Toronto Metro, "but we've done nothing to reduce the number of cars on the road. So all we're doing is putting cyclists and pedestrians closer to the pollution."
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Online User Ratings Are Useless, But We Believe Them Anyway
description: Online user ratings, like those found on Amazon and every other shopping site, are pretty much completely useless. A product with a high rating is no more likely to be good than one with a low rating.
"The likelihood that an item with a higher user rating performs objectively better than an item with a lower user rating is only 57 percent," Bart de Langhe of University of Colorado Boulder said in a news release "A correspondence of 50 percent would be random, so user ratings provide very little insight about objective product performance."
According to de Langhe's paper, buyers place a lot of faith in these reviews, even when there are only a few reviews to go by. We're just as likely to buy a product with a couple of five-star ratings as we are one with hundreds of good reviews.
"This is a mistake," de Langhe told CU News. "Oftentimes, there are just not enough ratings for a product or there is too much disagreement among reviewers. In this case, consumers should not trust the average very much, but they do nonetheless."
As part of the study, de Langhe's team compared the reviews of 1,272 products with the products' Consumer Reports scores and found that they don't match up. De Langhe calls Consumer Reports "the most commonly used measure of objective quality in the consumer behavior literature," which makes it a decent-enough yardstick, although Consumer Reports itself is a pretty bad source for reviews. It may be objective, but that's the problemthe tests rely more on feature checklists than on actual real-world, long-term use.
De Langhe also used resale value as a metric for quality, which might just be the smartest part of the paper. "Products with better reliability and performance retain more of their value over time," he says, adding that user ratings seldom correlate with resale value, further undermining their validity.
I used to be a professional gadget reviewer, a job which involved reading lots of customer reviews. After a while you spot patterns. Good reviews come from people who have just purchased a product they're excited about, and they want to tell somebody about it. These "reviews" come days or hours after opening the package. And most of the negative reviews are complaints about the features of the product, not its performance (usually proving the buyer didn't read the product description), or they're complaints about the shipping/packaging. Very few of the reviews are actually thatsometimes a user will return after a year to give an updated opinion, and these are the ones you should pay attention to.
The study also found that when comparing two items with otherwise "objective qualities," users tend to give a higher rating to more expensive items, or to items from a premium brand.
What can we, as consumers, do about this? After all, as de Langhe states rather dryly, "You can't assume that people follow such a scientific approach before they rate products online." Your best bet is to find a reviewer you can trust, and follow their advice. The problem there is that if you're buying in a product category you know nothing about, you don't know who to trust. So you should probably do what all smart consumers do these days: Check to see what The Wirecutter recommends, and just buy that. You literally can't go wrong.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: A New Cheap Way To Quickly Map Your City's Potholed Streets
description: After a heavy winter, roads in cities become uneven and potholed, and officials need to send out the repair trucks. But where exactly should they go? Which roads need fixing most?
To help answer that question, Argo Labs has the Street Quality Identification Device, or "SQUID," an accelerometer-camera combo that produces a complete map of road surfaces in a matter of days. Mounted on the back of municipal vehicles, the device measures bumps in road surfaces, while taking a picture every second.
"You get a complete data set for a city, so you're able to see the streets in a more equitable manner," says Varun Adibhatla, Argo's co-founder. "With a traditional approach, you're playing whack-a-mole, and it's 'Whoever shouts the loudest gets their street fixed.'"
(Your browser doesn't support iframe)Argo, described by Adibhatla "as a skunkworks for local government," is currently testing the SQUID in Syracuse, New York. A single vehicle can record up to 400 miles of road in a week. "When you're able to do complete street surveys that quickly, you make preventative maintenance possible and you can start anticipating street defects before they happen," he says.
The camera and accelerometer sit outside a sedan and feed data to a Raspberry Pi computer inside. The equipment costs no more than $300 all inwhich is less than more sophisticated laser-based systems, though not quite as granular. What SQUID loses in spot-by-spot detail, Adibhatla says, it makes up for in comprehensiveness.
Boston has a similar project, called Street Bump, that uses measurements from citizens' phones. But Adibhatla says Argo's method offers a more complete view of street conditions and isn't reliant on the co-operation of strangers.
Argo was founded by Adibhatla and two other graduates from NYU's Center for Urban Science and Progress. They're also interested in measuring ozone levels with car-mounted sensors.
"We want to develop technology with city managers rather than for city managers. Often they have a lot of ideas, but nobody to implement them," Adibhatla says.
Cover Photo: Flickr user Lee Cannon
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Heres the Climate Context For the Fort McMurray Wildfire
description: An unusually intense May wildfire roared into Fort McMurray, Alberta, Canada, on Tuesday, forcing the largest wildfire evacuation in province history. The flames rode the back of hot, windy weather that will continue through Wednesday and could pick up again this weekend.
The wildfire is the latest in a lengthening lineage of early wildfires in the northern reaches of the globe that are indicative ofa changing climate. As the planet continues to warm, these types of fires will likely only become more common and intense as spring snowpack disappears and temperatures warm.Flames rise in Industrial area south Fort McMurray, Alberta Canada May 3, 2016. Courtesy CBC News/Handout via REUTERS
This (fire) is consistent with what we expect from human-caused climate change affecting our fire regime,Mike Flannigan, a wildfire researcher at the University of Alberta, said.
At least one neighborhood of the northern Albertan city of 61,000 has been nearly entirely razed as the blaze ripped through the city from the west on Tuesday. Temperatures soared into the low 90s
up to 40F (22C) above normal for this time of year
coupled with high winds helped fan the flames late that afternoon. That sent 80,000 people in the city and surrounding area scrambling north and south through a post-apocalyptic landscape of trees lit up like matchsticks and flashing emergency lights.
{related}
People fled the fire using the one road in and out of town even as flames licked the side of the pavement and pea soup-thick smoke turned a daylight drive into one that felt more like dusk.
You just couldnt see two feet in front of your truck through all the smoke, Fort McMurray resident Dan Bickford told the Globe and Mail from an evacuation center in Lac La Biche.
My harrowing drive evacuating #ymm praying for my friends pic.twitter.com/XGFWfavqR2
Jordan J Stuffco (@jstuffcocrimlaw) May 3, 2016
The footage evacuees captured is reminiscent of Californias Valley Fire last year, which flared up under similar conditions and destroyed roughly 2,000 buildings in Lake and Sonoma counties. Despite the harrowing escape for many Fort McMurray residents, not a single fatality has been reported.
Fort McMurray fire chief Darby Allen told the CBC that Tuesday was the worst day of his career as firefighters scrambled to combat the wildfire. Preliminary reports indicate that 80 percent of the homes in one neighborhood have been destroyed, though the full extent of the damage isnt fully known yet. And it may very well not be over as hot, dry conditions are expected again on Wednesday.
Whats happening in Fort McMurray is a perfect encapsulation of the wicked ways that climate change is impacting wildfire season. A drier than normal winter left a paltry spring snowpack, which was quickly eaten away by warm temperatures. That left plenty of fuel on the ground for wildfires to consume.
Why the #ymmfire? Temperatures ~20 C above normal. Charts running out of colours. pic.twitter.com/ivcWInxkV5
Simon Donner (@simondonner) May 4, 2016
Add in this weeks temperatures, which soared far above normal, and you have a clear view of how climate change is affecting wildfire season not just in Alberta but across the northern reaches of the globe.
Boreal forests are burning at a rate unprecedented in the last 10,000 years. A Climate Central analysis of Alaskan wildfires last year showed that the season is 40 percent longer than it was 65 years ago. Large wildfires there have also doubled over that time.
Fort Mac is burning down
A video posted by William Brown (@william_brown94) on May 3, 2016 at 7:59pm PDT
In Canada, wildfire season now starts a month earlier than it used to and the average annual area burned has doubled since 1970, according to Flannigan.
Climate change has been altering background conditions, but this years El Nio also likely played a role in this particularly severe start to wildfire season in western Canada. Following the 1997-98 super El Nio, western Canada experienced a particularly severe wildfire season.
In this part of the world, El Nio means warm and dry. Weve had a warm and dry winter and now a warm and dry spring, Flannigan said. If I was putting odds on it, odds are we will have another bad fire season.
It's spooky driving through #ymm this morning. No one around and fire alarms going off in some buildings #ymmfire pic.twitter.com/fOtIeHehy9
BreannaKarstensSmith (@BreannaCTV) May 4, 2016
When these fires reach cities and towns, the results are devastating. In Fort McMurray, which was the hub of the Canadian tar sands boom that has since quieted with the collapse of oil prices, the economic cost could reach hundreds of millions of dollars, if past fires are any indicator.
But wildfires like this can also wreak havoc on the global climate, too. Boreal forests contain nearly 30 percent of all the worlds carbon stored on land. As they light up, they send that carbon into the atmosphere where it warms the globe. Intense wildfires are already turning some forests into carbon polluters in certain years, creating a feedback cycle that drives temperatures higher and raises fire risks even further.
Scientists are also concerned about the vast stores of peat in the boreal forest that spans Alberta and other parts of Canada. That peat contains significant amounts of carbon and once it catches fire, its exceedingly hard to put out and can smolder for weeks or months. It can even survive winter cold to re-emerge in the spring.
That makes living in the woods an increasingly perilous proposition. And it also means that what happens in the forest is unlikely to stay there.
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 2 Foolproof Ways to Cook Salmon
description: Maybe you've always had a soft spot for salmon. Or maybe you only recently realized how amazing it tastesand how incredibly good it is for our hearts, brains, and skin. Regardless, the fish has always seemed slightly intimidatinga restaurant-worthy meal, not one to make at home.
That is, until we witnessed how unbelieveably simple it is to cook, either in the oven or on the stove. All you need are a few pantry staples (olive oil, butter, salt, pepper, and a lemon) plus a fillet (about six to eight ounces should suffice for one).
One last tip: Go for wild salmon if possible. It may be a bit more pricey than farmed, but it has a better taste and more vitamins and minerals, along with fewer calories and less fat. After you've picked up your fish, click one of the cooking methods below for a ridiculously easy and tasty homemade meal.
This article was written by Lauren Berger from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Adding Plain Water To Your Terrible Diet Will Make You Lose Weight
description: Kids, if it wasn't obvious already, should be drinking water, not sugary soft drinks. Adding plain old water to the diets of overweight youngsters not only reduced their intake of sugary drinks, but the kids also ate less overall and reduced their intake of convenience foods. The same trick worked when adding milk to their diets.
These results, from a Danish study involving 173 overweight adolescents, add experimental weight to recommendations from health officials that children should drink plain water as their best source for hydration, according to a accompanying press release.
The study involved no coercion or difficult changes in diet. Participants were asked only to add a liter (just under a quart) of either water or milk to their diets, per day, for 12 weeks. Other than that, they could keep eating and drinking as normal. This makes the "diet" easily applicable to overweight people in everyday life.
Dmitry Naumov via Shutterstock
That drinking water reduces calorie intake is no surprise. What may be surprising, though, is that the participating kids also cut down on other calorific foods during the study, and ate less in general. Overall, the water-drinking group consumed fewer calories per kilo of bodyweight during the trial. The biggest loser was what the study categorized as "convenience food," which dropped the most during the trials. Participants also ate less "health conscious food," as part of the overall pattern of fewer calories, and actually ate more "fast food." The results were similar for the skim-milk-drinking group, although the overall calorie intake of the milk drinkers didn't change significantly during the study.
Why do a few glasses of water per day make such a difference? It may simply be that it fills you up, while containing zero calories. "Water contains no energy but might contribute to a feeling of fullness," write the study authors. "Water might therefore stabilize or reduce total energy intake by decreasing total energy."
So, despite the debunking of the eight-glasses-per-day myth, there are still benefits to drinking lots of plain water. You may not need it to avoid chronic dehydration, but if it takes the place of a snack, all while feeling refreshing, then why not?
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 5 Ways to Get ClosureWithout Talking to Your Ex
description: I just need closure. These words are way too familiar to anyone who's gone through a bad breakup. As you spend your first newly single days sobbing and bouncing back and forth between I can do better and Ill be alone forever, it seems like the best way to make the pain stopstat.
But it's an elusive conceptand it may not even be a real thing. "Closure doesnt exist," says Nancy Berns, Ph.D., sociologist and author of Closure: The Rush to End Grief and What It Costs Us. "Its an ambiguous term that means something different to every person." Forgiveness, revenge, forgettingyou have to figure out the root of your yearning first.
A more tangible definition of closure: healing. In other words, even though closure doesnt exist, it doesnt mean youll be in pain forever, Berns says. "You can heal without closure."
Still, that's easier said than done. Why is it so freakin' hard to feel better? One explanation comes from a Russian psychologist, Bluma Zeigarnik, in the late 1920s: She hypothesized the reason waiters could remember orders up until they delivered the food was because unprocessed material lingers in our brain.
This so-called Zeigarnik effect applies to loose ends throughout our lives, says Don Cole, LMFT, master certified Gottman therapist and co-founder of The Center for Relationship Wellness in Houston. Until the information is processed, its being worked on in part of our brain. And it keeps nagging at you, kind of like a stone in your shoe.
Until the information is processed, its being worked on in part of our brain. And it keeps nagging at you, kind of like a stone in your shoe.
Once the case is closed, we can let it gobut that need for closure is a built-in system. Shifting those lingering thoughts into storage typically involves having questions answered, Cole says. And yes, sometimes you have to talk to the other person for this to happenplain and simple. But communicating with your ex can trigger painful memorieseven physical painand set you back in your healing process, Cole points out.1
To top it off, it's likely your ex wont be able to explain why it ended all that well, Cole adds. In short, unless the breakup was amicable, youre probably going to leave even more frustrated and wounded than you went in. So, how do you heal without reaching out to catch up over coffee, drinks, or having a screaming match over the phone? Keep reading.1. Talk things out with a (neutral) friend.
The single best thing you can do: Find a truly empathic friend who can listen to your feelings, Cole says. Science agrees: A study found actively reflecting on a recent breakup can actually help speed the healing process, since it lets you process that information aloud.
But choose your confidante carefully. Youre vulnerable, so its important to find someone who wont tell you how to feel or think but will just be a witness to your pain, both experts agree. Be upfront and tell them what you need, Cole suggests. The payoff is worth any awkwardness you may feel at reaching out for help.
A therapist will work too, but Cole actually recommends the friend route for the neurochemical boost we get from being around people we love.
2. Load up your Netflix queue with comedies.
Your body responds to a breakup like it would any threatfiring up your sympathetic nervous system and flooding your body with chemicals like adrenaline and cortisol. You need to downregulate, Cole says, and convince your body to chill on the internal chaos.
Humor naturally does this, as it helps to buffer some of the negative effects of your fight-or-flight response and may slightly ease anxiety, studies show. You have to restore the balance to be able to start healing, Cole adds. Queue up your favorite funny flicks, or grab a friend and head to a comedy clubthat way you score the perks of a good laugh and companionship.
3. Pick up an old hobby you used to love.
Dont confuse staying busy with distracting yourselfyou have to let yourself think and feel. Thinking about things away from other people can help you process your thoughts and feelings, Berns says. However, focusing on something you enjoy will help you understand what you want, what you miss, and what you need, Berns explains.
Balance your days or weeks with alone time spent grieving and thinking, and activities you really enjoy and can find fulfillment inwhether it's picking up a paintbrush (or coloring book) or volunteering with animals. Plus, regaining a clear sense of self after a breakup is key to moving on, research shows, so remembering what makes you you will bring you closer to feeling back to normal.
4. Sweat it off.
Any activity that pushes your brain chemistry back toward a more stable state can help too, Cole adds. Exercise offers a ton of unexpected mental health benefits, including stress-relieving, happiness-boosting endorphins, and it provides a way for you to be alone with your thoughts without being still, Berns says. Pounding the pavement also helps restore the balance of your autonomic nervous system, putting your body into a more orderly state. (Scoring that revenge body is just a bonus.)
5. Take your time.
Being in a relationship creates a very real neurochemical and emotional attachment to someonethats not going to just heal overnight. One small study even found that on an MRI, the brains of the heartbroken can resemble the brains of those experiencing cocaine withdrawal.
A week, a month, a yearits different for everyone.
This process takes time, so ignore anyone who says you should just get over it, Bern advises. A week, a month, a yearits different for everyone. And remember, healing is different than forgetting about your ex completely, Berns points out. Plus, the loss of a relationship can tap into other losses weve had in our lives too, so youre probably processing more than just this breakup.
Finally, some good news: Studies have shown people often overestimate how long itll take them to get over their ex, so your heartache will stop a lot sooner than you think. But if you go beyond two weeks of serious symptomsones that affect your life, like oversleeping, not sleeping, skipping work, constant anger, or social media stalkingseek help from a therapist to avoid slipping into a clinical situation, Cole recommends.
Works Cited
Reward, addiction, and emotion regulation systems associated with rejection in love. Fisher HE, Brown LL, Aron A. Journal of neurophysiology, 2010, May.;104(1):1522-1598.
This article was written by Rachael Schultz from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: With Free Solar, A Classic Case Of Charity Doing More Harm Than Good In Kenya
description: The cause of lifting Africa from poverty has justified a long history of misguided aid projects. At best these are pointless and wasteful, such as a charity installing a well but leaving no money or expertise to fix it once it breaks. Worse is when they make intended recipients worse off, like when foreign aid props up corrupt officials rather than helps its citizens.
The popular social good business model of "buy one, give one"pioneered by Toms Shoeshas been a strong modern example of this. The argument against these "BOGO" companies is that when a business donates say a pair of shoes or eyeglasses for every one purchased by consumers in rich Western nations, a poor family may benefit in the short-term. The problem occurs when the product isn't made or sold in that same community. Then the jobs and market potential to grow local businesses is lost and opportunities to build an economy or improve people's lives in the long-term are stifled. The lesson is that in non-emergency scenarios, charity isn't always best for the long-term interests of developing world economy.
An example of this is playing out in Kenya, in a much higher-value market than shoes or eyeglasses, according to a piece by Stephen Lacey at Greentech Media. He reports on a controversy playing out around Canadian company SkyPower's plan to give away 2 million free solar lighting and charging kits to people, schools, and hospitals lacking access to electricity.
Energy poverty is an important causewithout power, kids can't study for school, and the work women must do in the household increases dramatically. Getting people connected to the grid does have enormous potential to improve lives.
But the giveaways could kill Kenya's emerging for-profit solar market and damage local businesses that were just starting to find their footing, build sales and distribution, and attract investors, according to numerous solar market players that Greentech Media spoke with. Pay-as-you-go solar business models help poor people access electricity and also create a sustainable industry that develops local economies. In Kenya, 3 million off-grid households are already served by solar providers through mobile payment systems. According to the Consultative Group to Assist the Poor, a collective promoting financial inclusion, these business models have not only radically increased the adoption of solar products but have helped bring poor people into the formal financial system.
"Dumping free products on top of the fully functioning Kenyan market could destroy the commercial underpinnings of the domestic solar industry."
"Dumping free products on top of the fully functioning Kenyan market could destroy the commercial underpinnings of the domestic solar industry and undercut the investments of hundreds of Kenyan companies who have built this market and whose livelihoods depend on the services they provide to satisfied customers," Russell Sturm, head of the International Finance Corporation's climate change advisory, told Greentech Media.
The African Solar Cooperative, which operates in Ghana, not East Africa, observed to Co.Exist that there is a need for charity to help grow a sustainable solar market, but noted the market can't be maintained without industry development. Many who can't currently access any solar market might benefit from charity, senior partner David Wan said, but also that "millions of solar products irresponsibly distributed could end up as scrap." Let's hope it doesn't come to that.
This article was written by Jessica Leber from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: If Something Is Going To Destroy Humanity, It's Going To Be One Of These Catastrophes
description: Global catastrophesevents that wipe out at least 10% of the world populationobviously don't happen very often. But they have happened in the past; the plague in the 14th century, for example, killed as much as 17% of the global population. More recently, the Spanish flu in 1918 killed between 50 to 100 million peoplenot quite an official catastrophe by this definition, but still as much as 5% of the people in the world.
That was before modern medicine. Today, though, we face even more potential risks. A new report, Global Catastrophic Risk 2016, outlines exactly what might go wrongand what we might do to prevent it.
ChameleonsEye via Shutterstock
Pandemics
Despite medical advances, pandemics like the plague or the flu are still a risk. If the H5N1 bird flu became easily transmissible between humans, by some estimates, it could kill as many as 1.7 billion people. Right now, it doesn't easily spread. But two recent scientific papers showed how to make a version that could be more transmissible. As new gene editing techniques such as CRISPR make it simpler and cheaper to change organisms, there's more of a risk of accidental release of lethal diseases from labs, or intentional release by terrorists.
Natural pandemics are also still a risk; flu pandemics happen relatively frequently (though none have been at the scale of "catastrophe," so far, they've occurred 10 times in the last 300 years). It's possible that a disease as transmissible as some types of the flu, but as lethal as Ebola, could emerge, and spread around the world as people travel.
via Nuclear Weapon Archive
Nuclear war
Nuclear war is also still a risk, though there are far fewer warheads around now (9,920, as of 2014) than there were a few decades ago. This isn't just a movie scenario. On multiple occasions in the past, we've come close to nuclear war: In 1995, Russian systems read a Norwegian weather rocket as a nuclear attack, and Yeltsin had launch codes ready.
In addition to killing millions of people, the smoke from bombs could block sunlight and end food production for years. The most likely intentional nuclear war right now might be between India and Pakistan. By some pessimistic estimates, the nuclear winter that would follow a hypothetical conflict between those two countries could starve 1 billion people.
P. CARRIL/ESA
Super volcanoes and asteroids
There are other, less likely natural risks. A super volcano that erupted in Indonesia 70,000 years ago seems to have caused mass extinction as clouds of dust and sulphates blocked out light and killed plants. It's possible that this type of eruption may happen every 30,000 to 50,000 years. Asteroids and comets could also potentially kill 10% of the global populationor, if the asteroid was larger than 1.5 kilometers, the entire world. The risk is fairly small, though: a 1 in 1,250 chance of impact in a 100-year period.
mrfiza via Shutterstock
Catastrophic climate change
While ordinary climate change is obviously pretty bad, climate change beyond our projections that totally destroys the environment is also possible. If researchers have underestimated the sensitivity of climate systems, or if feedback loops start happeninglike arctic permafrost melting, and releasing methane that speeds up warming, melting more permafrostit's possible that temperatures could rise six degrees or more, making huge chunks of the planet mostly uninhabitable. Some scientists have estimated that there's a slight chance of six degrees of warming even if emissions are dramatically cut now.
MarcelClemens via Shutterstock
Emerging risks
Like the risk of a bioengineered flu designed by terrorists, it's also possible that other real-life viruses could be engineered using information available on the Internet. The genetic data for smallpox, for example, is easy to find online, and new tools make it possible to synthesize a real bug from this information.
And then there are potential unintended consequences: The robots we're developing today are expected to be able to do what humans can do at some point in the next few decades, and soon after that, to be "superintelligent." They may decide they don't need us. To prevent destruction from climate change, we might try to geoengineer a solution, but this also comes with risks, especially if some countries decide to deploy them without worrying about how those actions affect weather in other regions.
The report looks at how likely each of these risks are to materialize within the next few years, and how they should be prioritized. Many are interrelatedclimate change, for example, may cause mass migration into slums with poor sanitation, increasing the risk of a global pandemic. But many of the solutions, such as building up resilience, are also connected.
"I'm still saving up a pension, so I guess that tells you something."
"Because all of the risks have the shared property of seeming a little bit unreala little bit far offmany of the political effects that cause them to be under-addressed are shared, and can be tackled collectively," says Sebastian Farquhar of the Global Priorities Project at Oxford University, one of the authors of the report.
The report suggests specific solutions, such as potentially requiring researchers using new gene editing techniques to get a license, building up a better stock of vaccines and drugs around the world, or implementing carbon taxes. They're hoping that laying out the problems clearly can help push for prioritization of issues that often don't get as much attention.
Farquhar believes all of the challenges are addressable. "I'm still saving up a pension, so I guess that tells you something," he says. "I'm an optimistic person. I think we can overcome these challenges, but it's not going to happen automatically."
He points to the fact that nuclear war has been avoided in the past because single officers have decided, at the last minute, not to push the button. "I think we can put a lot of faith in conscience, in individuals doing what's right, but we can't rely on that forever," he says. "We do need to set the structures up to support that, and to try to build a more collaborative and trust-based global environment, with more coordination and collaboration between states. Otherwise we're going to just keep rolling the dice, and one day, we'll lose that dice roll."
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Why Does The U.S. Hate Public Transportation?
description: Public transportation in the U.S. is embarrassingly bad. It's rated 16th in the world for the quality of its infrastructure by the World Economic Forum, barely scoring higher than Malaysia and Bahrain. But why? Why does one of the world's richest economies refuse to pay for good public transport?
That's what John Rennie Scott asks in an article for the Conversation, and the answers are depressingly familiar. Scott provides plenty of examples of not only the poor state of repair of existing public transport systems, but also instances of straight-up refusal to build it in the first place. For instance, did you know that Washington, D.C.'s Dulles airport, an international hub used by both foreign and domestic passengers, has no train connection? "The Metro has yet to link the city to the airport, 40 years after the system opened," writes Scott.
Flickr user John St John
And recently the subway system in Washington, D.C., the nation's capital, has had to schedule shutdowns, possibly for months, because of frayed cables.
Scott has come up with four reasons to explain why U.S. neglects its public transport networks, neglect which costs the public $120 billion a year in lost time and extra fuel costs.
Reason one isyou guessed itthe car. This infrastructural cancer has spread and choked the country. First, federal investment boosted the road system, and then new suburbs and cities were built around the car.
In Europe, expensive gas and restrictive land use measures kept people in dense cities, and urban growth followed along the lines of mass transit, reinforcing and consolidating their use.
Politics has played a big role in this split. Republicans have aligned themselves with the perceived personal freedom of the automobile, says Scott, whereas public transport is seen as a socialist concern. Thus, right-leaning politicians vote against it, even though public transport is good for the economy.
This neglect leads to Scott's second and third points, which are the neglect, abandonment, and subsequent decay of mass transit. "As a result, many mass transit systems were taken over by municipalities," which led to poorly funded systems that operated at the whim of disinterested politicians. Even newly built transit systems are left to wither when it comes to the long-term costs of upkeep and improvement.
Flickr user erik forsberg
"Building something new gives politicians a photo opportunityreplacing a frayed electrical cable does not," says Scott. As a result, essential maintenance is falling into arrears. "Chicago Transit Authority, for instance, spent $5 billion on infrastructure upgrades in the past five years, but needs another $13 billion."
The fourth and final factor is a malaise that affects more than just U.S. public transport. We have "lost faith in the public realm," and we no longer trust government to run public services. Individualism is the driving force behind everything, with, says Scott, the private car as its embodiment. "This thinking has made our cities less about shared experiences, and more a place of different lives and separated spaces."
The trend, though, might be reversing. Usage rates for public transport are up. Millennials, who famously shun cars, prefer public transport, and the 60-year driving boom seems to finally be over.
Maybe the electric car will be thing that tips the balance toward reinvestment in public transport. After all, a mass shift from gas to electricity requires an equally massive investment in terms of power infrastructure to juice all those automobiles. And maybe, instead of wasting all that money on private vehicles, we'll spend it on more sustainable public options instead.
It's a long shot, but as more municipalities come to realize that the city is no place for cars, something will have to take their place.
Correction: This article mistakenly placed Dulles airport in Chicago.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 5 Winning Business Strategies For Environmentalists, From The Experts At Patagonia
description: Patagonia is an unusual mix of a company: part clothing supplier, part environment action group. It sells shirts and crampons, but it's equally as interested in environmental causes. To that end, it gives away 1% of its net sales to nonprofits every year, and organizes conferences where it trains activists in business skillseverything from communications to lobbying. If they're going to compete with professional opponents, it figures, they're going to need professional skills of their own.
"We've been training 75 activists every two years or so. But we realized that however much we did that, we could never train enough people."
Now, the talks from these "tools conferences" have been collected in Tools For Grassroots Activistsa practical business discipline-by-discipline guide, complete with a dozen case studies.
"We've been training 75 activists every two years or so. But we realized that however much we did that, we could never train enough people," says Nora Gallagher, the book's co-editor. "We thought with the book we can teach many more people the kind of business skills they need to succeed and to be effective."
Here are a few major lessons from the guide:
Communications
Kristen Grimm, president of PR firm Spitfire Strategies, gives lessons for getting the word out. First, nonprofits need to be specific: Better to say you want to close a particular power plant than to say you like clean air. Second, you should identify individuals who support you: Don't say you're backed by McDonald's. Say you're endorsed by the nutrition director at McDonald's and name the person. And third: nonprofits should make communication personal. Grimm says you want to "trigger emotions that inspire" (hope and pride are better than guilt and shame), and you want to tell supporters people like them are involved. Choose words that "create pictures," she writes: "Predatory lending" is a more compelling description than "unfair lending practices."
Strategy
Conservation Lands Foundation executive director Brian O'Donnell gave a talk on strategy, something that's frequently misunderstood, he says. "Leaders fail to appreciate the importance of developing a strategy, how tactics fit into strategy, and the difference between the two," he writes. Activists tend to have tactics and aspirations, but not clear goals and a long-term plan. "Tactics is doing things right. Strategy is doing the right things," O'Donnell writes. "You can win a campaign with a good strategy and mediocre tactics. But you will lose every time with mediocre strategy and good tactics."
Fundraising
Diane Brown, a consultant with the Non-Profit Assistance Group, gives advice for raising money. She tells activists to target supporters based on likelihood of response (and their wealth), thinking about why donors want to give to environmental groups, and working on the assumption that most conservation dollars are localpeople want to protect their own backyard. She also recommends looking beyond foundation grants to activities that nonprofits can charge for, whether it's eco-tours or after-school classes.
(Your browser doesn't support iframe)Lobbying
Tim Mahoney, a long-time lobbyist, offers advice about persuading lawmakers. Good lobbyists don't lie about their positions (even if they massage the truth). They build trust with lawmakers by doing favors, and framing issues from their point of view. Facts, he says, are less important than political reality. "You need to make the political case that your side of the issue can be popular with constituents or other stakeholders that matter to the member," he writes. He also recommends lobbyists "be themselves" and try to relate on a human level, rather than just be another professional.
Working with businesses
These days, many environmental groups have "partnerships" with companies (WWF's relationship with Coca-Cola for example). John Sterling, director of the Conservation Alliance, says these can help with communication (companies have megaphones), raising money and getting in-kind services, and, occasionally, can even change corporate practice. He recommends nonprofits start with small shared activities to build trust and get lower-rung employees involved. It's also a good idea to thank corporations publicly and effusively. "Companies love the kudos they receive from environmental groups," he says.
See more from the book here.
Correction: This article original said Patagonia gives 10% of pre-tax profits to environmental causes. It's 1% of annual net sales.
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 5 Workouts That Make You Feel Awesome About Your Body
description: Pilates is my jam. I discovered it about 10 years ago when I was recovering from binge eating disorder and I realized that more hard-core "calorie-scorching," "fat-burning" fitness efforts messed with my headand turned exercise into a punishment for eating, rather than a dose of good medicine for mind and body.One of my favorite things about the studio I go to is how little the instructors seem to care about what I look likewhat any of us in those classes look like. What really excites them isnt an inch lost off of a waistline, its watching us get good articulation in our lumbar spine or increased range of motion in our shoulders. (Seriously, those thingsll get you a shout-out and high five.)
This type of weight-neutral, body positive approach to fitness is gaining steam in the industry, but it's sadly still the exception rather than the rule.
Alex van Frank is a yoga therapist and instructor based in San Diego, CA. "In the 'typical' world of fitness right now there is an excessive emphasis on weight-loss and being 'cut' and 'ripped,' which to me sounds pretty scary in a dark-alley sort of way," she says. Tori Rodriguez, MA, LPC, a psychotherapist and fitness expert, agrees. "I've been in countless fitness classes where the instructor says something like, 'Let's scorch those Thanksgiving calories!' or 'This will get your body bikini-ready!' And I'm thinking, I don't want to scorch calories or get bikini-readyI just want a good workout! Not to mention those types of statements have lots of other implications that can make people feel like sh*t." What's more, those sort of shame-based, extrinsic motivators for exercising and eating well don't often stick.
Anne Poirier, program director at Green Mountain at Fox Run, a non-diet mind/body wellness center in Ludlow, VT, was a fitness trainer for 30 years until she became convinced that the fitness industry was making many people less healthy, not more. "I would help people lose weight through diet and exercise, only for them to gain it back and end up feeling frustrated, depressed, and like a failure. Time and time again the same people would seek me out to help them again. It was especially heartbreaking for me, I think, because this same cycle was happening to me as well. The only time I really felt at peace with my body was when I was pregnant. As a fitness professional, you are expected to look a certain way, eat only 'good' foods, and exercise harder than others."
She also noticed that the workouts trainers were giving their clients were getting harder and harder, setting the average person up for either injury or failure. "Who wants to live like that? That all exercise has to be hard and painful and that we have to do it in order to stay healthy. What about what we want to do? We have to start thinking about sustainability and enjoyment."
Body-Positive Workouts
I feel so lucky to have found an inspiring, kick-ass studio to call my exercise home. In the spirit of spreading some of that sweet body-love around, I've gathered a list of body-positive fitness studios and resources to help you find your own workout happy place.
In addition to the ones listed below, you can also check out Body Positive Fitness Alliance. The network was started by a gym owner in Southern California who's trying to make fitness more inclusive, less image obsessed, and less intimidating for all. On its website you can find a list of trainers and facilities that have completed body-positive fitness training and pledged to be a safe fitness space.Photo: Robert Sturman1. Alex V Yogi Boutique Yoga Studio
San Diego, CA and online
"When I do yoga and when I teach, I feel like I vibrate with excitement and energy because it speaks to my soul," studio owner van Frank says. "I believe that everyone is embodied to realize the pure pleasure and bliss of having a body, no matter what shape, color, or form. So go on find your bliss!"Photo: Bettie Page Fitness2. Bettie Page Fitness DVDs
Bettie Page Fitness creator Tori Rodriguez (mentioned above) is a psychotherapist and fitness expert in Atlanta. "Many people think body positivity is synonymous with 'plus-size,' which it isn't. It's a body-friendly approach for people of all sizes and levels of fitness and mobility," she says. "Another aspect of body-positive fitness is that it emphasizes exercising for intrinsically motivated reasonslike for the fun of it, for more energy or a better mood, or for health benefits, for instance, rather than for external motivation like appearance. I see body-positive fitness as a movement to reclaim fitness for all bodies and disentangle it from unhealthy ideals and weight-based stigma."Photo: Jo McDonald3. Cascadia Pilates
Portland, OR
"I was over 200 pounds when I began taking Pilates classes at the YMCA at age 20, and I find my background helps larger clients feel a bit less intimidation when introducing a new movement," instructor Jo McDonald says. "I remember clearly how frustrating it was to be in a body that couldn't move well. I feel gratitude for every smooth roll up and for every side plank I can maintain. Proper posture and toned muscles are fantastic, but life is so much more enjoyable in a strong body!"Photo: Rob Williams4. Curvy Yoga
Nashville, TN and online
"I practiced yoga for almost a decade, and no teacher ever helped me make the practice work for my curvy body," Curvy Yoga CEO Anna Guest-Jelley told Shape. "I just kept assuming the problem was my body, and that once I lost 'x' amount of weight, I'd finally 'get it.' Then one day it dawned on me that the problem was never my body. It was just that my teachers didn't know how to teach bodies like mine."Photo: Gillian Byers5. Mindfully Active
Newberg, OR
"I offer one-on-one and small group training as well as classes and courses for beginners and those with fibromyalgia, arthritis, and other chronic conditions," owner Gillian Byers says. "To me body-positive fitness is about sending your body love and working in partnership with it, listening to, and respecting what it has to say."
Sunny Sea Gold is Greatists body image columnist and the author of Food: The Good Girls DrugHow to Stop Using Food to Control Your Feelings (Berkley Books, 2011). The views expressed herein are hers. A health journalist by trade and training and a mom of two little girls, shes also an advocate and educator focused on reducing the rates childhood obesity and eating disorders by building Body-Positive Families. Reach out to her @sunnyseagold.
This article was written by Sunny Sea Gold from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Sorry, Negative-Calorie Foods Arent a Thing
description: We hate to be the bearer of bad news, but there's no merit to the claim that celery is a negative-calorie food. And it's not just celerynegative-calorie foods don't exist. As this video from SciShow explains, the idea behind the celery myth makes some sense: Chewing, swallowing, and digesting takes energy and burns calories. But even low-calorie celery (a stalk is about 8 calories) takes only 2 calories to digest. That doesn't mean you shouldn't be eating lots of veggies, but chowing down on celery stalks alone won't lead to weight loss.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: How to Know If Porn Is Hurting Your Relationship
description: Utah governor Gary Herbert recently made headlines when he signed a resolution that declared porn a "public health crisis." The legislation is largely symbolicit calls for research, education, and policy changes, rather than an outright banbut it got us thinking about the impact pornography has on us and our relationships.
Thanks to the internet, porn is more readily accessible than ever before. In a recent survey of high school seniors, almost 80 percent admitted to watching adult content and more than one in five do so regularly.1
That kind of widespread exposure doesn't necessarily mean it's doing harm. So far scientists have shown a correlation between watching porn and a loss of brain plasticity, which can affect learning and memory.2 But as the old adage goes, "Correlation does not imply causation." In other words, we need more research to determine if watching porn really does alter our brains.
Porn also has the potential to damage our relationships. A survey with self-selected participants in Psychology Today found that three out of four women experienced intense feelings of fear after discovering their partner's porn habit.
This research seems to suggest you should say good-bye to sites like PornHub and Xtube for good, but that's not necessarily the case, says Kat Van Kirk, Ph.D., a certified sex therapist and licensed marriage and family therapist. "People can get into compulsive behaviors that disrupt their lives, but therein lies the key," she says. "The behavior has to disrupt ones life."
Kirk suggests asking these questions to see if porn is negatively impacting your life or relationships:
Does it cause you to miss work or important family gatherings?
Has it led to financial problems?
Is there a loss of intimacy between you and your partner?
Has porn become a replacement for intimacy with your partner?
If you answered "yes" to any of these questions, don't panic just yet. Kirk says these issues can usually be resolved through a typical course of therapy.
Works Cited
Adolescents and web porn: a new era of sexuality. Pizzol D, Bertoldo A, Foresta C. International journal of adolescent medicine and health, 2015, Aug.;():0334-0139.
Brain structure and functional connectivity associated with pornography consumption: the brain on porn. Khn S, Gallinat J. JAMA psychiatry, 2014, Aug.;71(7):2168-6238.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Florida Reefs Are Dissolving Much Sooner Than Expected
description: It wasnt supposed to happen this fast.
Some of the reefs around the Florida Keys are dissolving. They may have crossed a tipping point due to increasing ocean acidification, raising the alarm that climate change impacts in the ocean are continuing to happen at a much quicker pace than scientists previously suspected.Extensive thickets of staghorn corals at Carysfort Reef, approximately 6 nautical miles east of Key Largo, Fla., are gone today and replaced by a structure-less bottom littered with the decaying skeletons of staghorn coral.
Credit: Chris Langdon
Rising carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere are making seas more acidic. That makes it harder for coral to build up their skeletons.
Scientists expected that the rising tide of acidic waters would cross a tipping point and start dissolving reefs by mid-century. But some of Floridas reefs appear to be getting a head start, according to research published in Global Biogeochemical Cycles on Monday.
Scientists sampled seven sites across the 300-mile stretch of reefs stretching from Miami south to Key West. The findings show that the northern stretches of the reefs and their limestone bases are already dissolving.
Those reefs are starting to waste away, Chris Landon, a researcher at the University of Miami who helped lead research, said. Each year there will be a little less limestone than the year before.
Many of the other reefs in the study are dissolving in fall and winter when ocean waters tend to be more acidic due to natural processes like seagrass dying off. Only the two southernmost reefs that he sampled are still building up mass year-round.
{related}
The loss of these reefs is a very real concern for people living the region. According to the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary, the reefs there provide an estimated $2 billion in income and 70,400 jobs. They are home a variety of fish and provide protection against storm surge to the millions of residents in southeast Florida.
This is a really important study for understanding when net dissolution will start occurring on a coral reef, Emily Shaw, a reef researcher at California State, Northridge, said. She noted that the localized analysis provided a clearer view than more typical global analyses of ocean acidification.A reef off Rock Key, Fla.
Credit: Snorkelingdives.com/Flickr
Derek Manzello, a scientist at the Atlantic Oceanographic and Atmospheric Marine Laboratory, said the results were in line with his findings from a 2012 study. He said the main driver of the decline, however, was more likely that much of the live coral has been lost in the Florida Keys since the early 1980s owing to disease and bleaching. That weakened the reefs limestone base enough so that they could dissolve more readily.
Bleaching poses another stress to reefs, not just in Florida, but around the globe. This year was the longest global coral bleaching event on record including a vast swath of the Great Barrier Reef. Recent research showed that bleaching in the Great Barrier Reef was 175 more likely because of climate change. Some of the most pristine reefs on the planet were also decimated by this winters bleaching event.
Scientists have started looking at what coral beat the heat in hopes of creating super corals that can survive in our warming oceans. But Langdons research shows that their efforts could be for naught because ocean acidification could eat away at the building blocks those corals will need to flourish (or at least survive).
We need to get serious about reducing carbon dioxide levels, he said. Thats whats making the oceans acidic and making the reefs dissolve. If the actual framework of the reef is dissolving, none of these other actions are going to be very successful in the long term.
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 4 Reasons Exercise Alone Won't Help You Lose Weight
description: If you're looking to lose weight, hitting the gym probably tops your list of priorities, but study after study shows that a laser focus on exercise doesn't result in weight loss. Confusing, right? That's why Vox reporters took an in-depth look at more than 60 studies on weight loss and obesity. Here's what they found:
Exercise alone is almost useless when it comes to losing weight. Researchers tracked people who added more workouts to their training schedules but kept their diets the same and found they lost only a few pounds. Our energy system is a lot more complicated than calories in versus calories out, so it's hard to create a calorie deficit just with exercise.1
Exercise accounts for a small percentage of our daily calorie burn. Fewer than 30 percent of the energy we expend comes from exercise.2 We burn more calories doing everyday things like breathing and digesting.
Exercise can undermine weight loss. We've all told ourselves that we deserve that margarita or slice of pizza because we went to spin class earlier. In other words, working out can make you eat more, either because you think you burned off a bunch of calories or because you're actually hungrier. Your body may even conserve energy after exercising to try to hang onto fat for future energy needs.3 (Wow! Thanks, body.)
More exercise doesn't mean more calories burned. This theory is still being tested, but scientists found evidence that after a certain amount of exercise, you stop burning energy at the same rate. So logging double the steps on your Fitbit doesn't necessarily mean you burned double the calories.
So what does work for weight loss? The National Weight Control Registry, which studies adults who have lost at least 30 pounds (and kept it off for more than a year), says the best strategies are weighing yourself weekly, watching your portion size, staying away from high-fat foods, restricting your calorie intake, and exercising regularly. And if you're incorporating both diet and exercise into your weight-loss plan, don't count the calories you burn on the treadmill as negative calories.
It's also important to remember that these suggestions are for an average person, which doesn't take into account your personal health history. If you're serious about losing weight, talk to a primary care doctor or nutritionist and create a plan that's best for you.
(h/t Vox)
Works Cited
Predicting adult weight change in the real world: a systematic review and meta-analysis accounting for compensatory changes in energy intake or expenditure. Dhurandhar EJ, Kaiser KA, Dawson JA. International journal of obesity (2005), 2014, Oct.;39(8):1476-5497.
Physical activity and physical activity induced energy expenditure in humans: measurement, determinants, and effects. Westerterp KR. Frontiers in physiology, 2013, Apr.;4():1664-042X.
The response to exercise with constant energy intake in identical twins. Bouchard C, Tremblay A, Desprs JP. Obesity research, 2006, Apr.;2(5):1071-7323.
Predicting adult weight change in the real world: a systematic review and meta-analysis accounting for compensatory changes in energy intake or expenditure. Dhurandhar EJ, Kaiser KA, Dawson JA. International journal of obesity (2005), 2014, Oct.;39(8):1476-5497.
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Paris Pact Could Benefit From Halt of Fossil Fuel Leases
description: Phasing out federal coal, oil and gas leasing on public lands in the U.S. could make a small but significant contribution toward the international goal of keeping global warming to 2C (3.6F), according to a paper published Tuesday by the Stockholm Environment Institute.
Shutting down all federal oil, gas and coal leasing would lead to a long-term decline in fossil fuels production nationwide, resulting in annual global carbon dioxide emissions reductions of 100 million metric tons by 2030, roughly equivalent to Virginias annual carbon emissions from energy consumption, according to the paper.
A drilling rig exploring for natural gas in Colorado's Piceance Basin in 2013.
Credit: Bobby Magill/Climate Central
Thats a substantial climate benefit, on a par with the emissions reductions from other Obama administration climate policies, such as medium-heavy duty vehicle efficiency standards or regulations on methane from oil and gas, said paper co-author Michael Lazarus, senior scientist at the Stockholm Environment Institute, a nonprofit sustainability research organization affiliated with Tufts University.
Fossil fuel leasing the process that allows energy companies to drill and mine for oil, gas and coal on land and waters controlled by the federal government has become a significant climate policy issue as scientists and activists urge the government to keep it in the ground to stop fossil fuel development from worsening climate change.
{related}
The Obama administration has already halted coal leasing on federal lands
the source of about 40 percent of all U.S. coal while it brings the federal coal program in line with government climate policy. Oil and gas leasing continues on federal land and waters, mainly in the Gulf of Mexico.
Most fossil fuels development occurs on private land across the U.S. Federal leases are the source of about 21 percent of U.S. crude oil production and 11 percent of U.S. natural gas. U.S. fossil fuel production is expected to increase by 11 percent by 2040.
The Department of the Interior is committed to safely and responsibly managing the development of oil and gas on public lands in a way that continues to meet our nation's energy needs while advancing renewable forms of energy, Interior Dept. spokeswoman Amanda Degroff said Tuesday.
The Obama administrations vehicle efficiency standards aim to cut carbon dioxide emissions by 60 million metric tons annually, and methane regulations are expected to cut emissions by 13 million tons. By contrast, the Clean Power Plan, the administrations strategy to slash emissions from coal-fired power plants, would cut annual carbon emissions by 730 million metric tons, the same as about 150 million cars.
Lazarus said the most effective emissions reduction strategy will likely involve reductions in both fossil fuel supply and demand.
Equipment on a federal oil and gas lease in San Miguel County, Colo.
Credit: Bobby Magill/Climate Central
By taking actions to curb investment in future fossil fuel supply infrastructure, federal policymakers could limit carbon lock-in, limit the potential for asset stranding and complement the policies needed to reduce fossil fuel use such as the Clean Power Plan, the paper says.
Lazarus said his teams research shows that the case for phasing out natural gas leasing isnt nearly as strong as the case for phasing out oil and coal leasing because natural gas helps displace coal in many places.
Natural gas, which emits roughly half the carbon dioxide as coal when used to generate electricity, has been steadily replacing coal as the nations primary source of fuel for electric power production.
Scientists unaffiliated with the paper commended the research, but said other steps should be taken to curb emissions stemming from fossil fuels development on public lands.
Jayni Hein, policy director for the Institute for Policy Integrity at NYU. said the government should evaluate many ways of reforming fossil fuel leasing in addition to assessing the environmental impact of its coal program.
The government could set a carbon budget for federal lands based on what is needed to meet Paris commitments and adjust the fiscal terms or leasing policies for federal fossil fuels in order to meet that budget, Hein said.
Rob Jackson, a Stanford University earth systems science professor, cautioned that the federal government is unlikely to halt oil and gas leasing anytime soon.
Still, its useful to think about what the federal government can do independent of the states, which control the most oil and gas production, he said.
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: One Big Reason We Need to Talk More About Mental Health
description: Suicide is the one of the leading causes of death among American adults under the age of 35, and a recent report from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention warns that the number of people who take their own lives continues to grow. In the last 15 years, the rate of suicide increased 24 percent in the U.S.
We have made major strides in how we talk about mental health issues: Many people are sharing their personal struggles through hashtags and powerful videos. But this is just the start of a larger conversation. When things like depression remain stigmatized, it can be harder for those who need help to seek it out. If you or someone you know is struggling with a mental health issue, check out our comprehensive guide of (mostly free) resources.
I Need Help
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Instead Of Renting An Apartment, Sign A Lease That Lets You Live Around The World
description: If you can afford the airfare, it's getting easier to be a digital nomad. Roam, a new network of co-living spaces, offers a lease that lets you continually move: After a couple of weeks or months in Madrid, you can head to Miami, or Ubud, Bali. By 2017, the startup plans to have 8-10 locations around the world.
These aren't designed as places for vacations. Instead, it's an alternative way to think about home for "location-independent" people who can work remotely. After living and working nomadically in his twenties, founder Bruno Haid wanted to make it easier.
"Just managing my stuff and going back and forth between Airbnbs and housesitting became more cumbersome over time," Haid says. "At the same time, I was involved in a couple of early co-living communities in San Francisco, and saw the cultural value of something like that."
Ubud
By combining co-living with nomadism, Haid hoped to help alleviate the loneliness of showing up in a new city and culture, knowing no one. Residents each have their own private bedroom and bathroom, but they also have access to a coworking space and shared communal areas. The point is to meet as many people as possible.
"If you go from location to location, it always takes a couple of weeks to feel at home," he says. "That's something that we want to make sure is done in a very short time frame. You can literally show up in Bali and you live with people who have been there for a long time, means you have everything you need to navigate the local community, to know what's where, what can I connect to."
Miami
Though it's possible to book for a week ($500, no matter where you are, or $1800 for a month), the startup prefers that people stay longer, believing that community is something that most people lack in city life now. Like other co-living experiments, they also believe that it's possible to design better living space if parts of it are shared: instead of cramped, crappy kitchenettes in multiple studio apartments, for example, the same money can be pooled to make a chef-quality communal kitchen.
The company is trying to bring more than the usual globe-trotting crowd of developers or designers. Some of the first residents included a playwright, a women's rights activist working on issues in the Middle East, and the founder of Berlin's first co-working space. It's also meant for people of all ages.
Madrid
"it's not just for the young single freelancer," says Haid. "It's for the couple in their late 30s who are going to have kids and want to downsize for a year or two. Or the empty-nesters who say the kids are in college, let's travel the world for two or three years." He estimates that there are 1.2 million people who have the incomeand the ability to work remotelywho can live this way. Each location will host dozens of people: more than a large house, but a small enough crowd to feel like a community.
The first locations have been chosen for their year-round good weather and access to economic centers (Bali, for example, is a relatively convenient place to work with clients in Australia, Singapore, or Hong Kong). But Haid hopes to eventually expand to every major city, and perhaps multiple locations within cities.
"Let's say, ok, I've got to do a lot of work, let's go to the SOMA location for a couple of weeks," he says of San Francisco. "Then, I've got to finish a book, so head to the countryside for a couple of weeks. Then go to Oakland, because it's culturally more interesting."
In a new funding round announced today, Roam raised $3.4 million to expand to Buenos Aires and London.
All Photos: via Roam
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Mom's Letter Is a Powerful Look at Living With Anxiety
description: Mental illness can be complicated to explain, which is why one mom wrote a letter to her children in an attempt to tell them what it's like to live with anxiety. Sara Lindberg's note is addressed to her kids, but we can all learn something from her words (parent or not). It's a glimpse at the struggles people with anxiety disorders face and shows how mental illness can impact the people around us.
Here's a short excerpt, though we definitely recommend checking out the whole thing:
I still remember the day I came home from the store and you were both playing on the slip and slide.
It was scorching hotprobably 90 degreesand you were squealing with laughter as you jumped through the sprinklers and launched your bodies down the big yellow slip and slide. In that moment, the pure joy about the simplicity of your world is what compelled me to do what I did next.
For a brief moment, I was brought back to my own childhood, feeling the lightness of life. As soon as I took off running, you got out of the way, but Im sure you werent convinced I was going to do it. Once my body hit the ground and I was soaked, you were ecstatic. You ran to me and jumped on my body, and all three of us lay there in the water, messy and cold. You both looked at me with absolute pride and admiration.
I didnt think firstI just jumped. And in that moment, I was the mom I want to be, the mom you so often need me to be. The mom I struggle with daily, never allowing her to be a part of my life.
What you didnt see later on that night was me in the house cryingwondering why I wont let myself be her more often.
Read The Full Letter
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Kids Are So Addicted To Phones That One City Is Putting Traffic Lights In Sidewalks
description: If you think that cell phones don't ruin our behavior, then think again. In Germany, the problem has gotten so bad that one city has installed new traffic lights in the ground, so pedestrians are sure to see it even they are looking down at their screens.
Germans take their traffic lights seriously. Really seriously. People will wait at a red pedestrian crossing light to cross the road, even when there are no cars visible in either direction. It even happens at night, and even in Berlin (where I live), the capital city with 3.4 million inhabitants. So the officials in the city of Augsburg took it equally seriously when citizens started to wander across the road against the lights, without even looking up from their cell phones.
To help remind young Germans of their civic duty, Augsburg has installed new lights at two tram crossings. The red LEDs are embedded into the pavement and flash in an attempt to wrest their attention from WhatsApp, or whatever it is the kids are into these days. The crossings are both near the local university. According to Germany's N-TV, the idea came after a 15-year-old girl was killed by a tram. Police reports say she was distracted by her phone at the time.
(Your browser doesn't support iframe)The Augsburg authorities have called the floor-mounted lamps Bompeln, a contraction of Boden Ampeln, literally floor traffic lights. Yet despite this super-cool coinage, the kids aren't impressed. "Until now,I didn't even notice them," said one young local when asked by the newspaper.
Added safety measures at tricky crossings are great, and much better than New Jersey's attempted ban on texting while walking. But these are just kids being kids. Germany's real problems will only start when the adults ignore the crossing lights. If the grown-ups start thinking it's okay to cross an empty street without getting permission first, the country is doomed.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The World's First Fuel-Cell Car-Sharing Program Will Open In Germany
description: Today, around the world, fuel-cell cars are stuck in a chicken-and-egg scenario: Few people have hydrogen cars, so companies don't want to build hydrogen filling stations. And, people don't want hydrogen cars because there aren't many filling stations.
To break the impasse, Linde, a big industrial gases company in Germany, is getting into the transportation business. From this summer, it's launching the world's first car-sharing service for hydrogen cars. It hopes Germans will think differently about hydrogen once they start experiencing it.
"This is an amazing technology, but it's not developing as fast you would hope," says Sandra Scherb, general manager of the new service, called BeeZero. "We can't wait for someone else to develop it. We have to take the lead and do it ourselves."
BeeZero will offer 50 Hyundai ix35 Fuel Cell electric vehicles in Munich. The model has a maximum range of about 370 miles, and Linde hopes customers will use them for longer tripssay, to the mountains or visiting family in the country. It hopes to emphasize the superior range of hydrogen fuel cells compared to battery-electric vehicles, which typically offer only about 100 miles on a single charge.
Drivers will be able to rent the cars using an app and keep them for as long as they like. They can fill up the tank along the way or bring the car back empty. But the latter is more likely. Germany has only 19 hydrogen filling stations currently.
Hydrogen cars are quicker to recharge than battery vehicles (it takes about as long as a standard gas vehicle). They produce no tailpipe emissions (aside from a little water). And, potentially, hydrogen is a good way to store renewable power when it can't be used immediately. Linde's hydrogen is made from excess wind energy, as well as bio-methane from landfills. There are currently three main car models on the marketthe Hyundai ix35, Honda FCX Clarity, and Toyota Mirai. But Mercedes and Audi have both announced new models recently.
"We want to offer sharing for longer trips outside the city," says Scherb. "It's a way for us to get experience and to bring the technology to the end-consumer who will decide about the market success of this technology."
All Photos: via BeeZero
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Stunning Cloud Maps Tell the Story of Life on Earth
description: Clouds might seem like a nuisance if youre headed on a Sunday afternoon picnic. But put aside your personal biases for a second and consider this: clouds can also tell the story of life on earth.
That story has become a lot clearer thanks to new maps created by scientists that document a global year in the clouds in more intimate detail than ever before. The maps a cloud atlas if you will provide a fine-grained view of how clouds move around in our atmosphere and represent an important link between climate and ecological research. Theyre also pretty easy on the eyes.Seasonal cloud concentration by month. Darker colors indicate less of a seasonal trend in cloudiness.
Credit:EarthEnv
It turns out, England is indeed cloudy for most of the year while most of the Bay Areas clouds show up in February. Adam Wilson, a researcher at the University of Buffalo who helped create the cloud atlas, joked that you could use the maps to settle bets between friends on who lives in the cloudiest place.
{related}
But beyond bets and bragging rights, Wilson said the maps also provide a tool for tracking life around the planet. It turns out that the different biomes of the world from deserts to mountains to cloud forests all have their own special patterns of clouds, patterns that can be instrumental to studying the patterns of life itself.
"I wasnt expecting the signal of the biomes would stand out so stark globally," Wilson said. "The Mediterranean, southwest Africa, Australia, they all pop out as a totally different. Thats not scientifically amazing but seeing it for the first time in a map was just striking."Spatial variation in cloud frequency.
Credit: EarthEnv
There have been other efforts to get fine-grained cloud data in the past, but theyve been marred by being limited to the tropics or getting false positives of clouds in snowy areas. Wilson and colleagues at Yale created a new analysis of satellite data captured at a 1-kilometer resolution by NASA everyday for the past 15 years to shine a light on the cloudy skies.
The new data analysis helps bridge an big divide between the climate and ecology communities. Ecologists track plants and animals across the planet at very fine scale, sometimes looking at a few square feet of soil, but climate science often provides data at a much larger spatial scale. With the new dataset, ecologists' understanding of the climate factors that affect life has vastly expanded.
And because its satellite data, the majority of the globe is covered including places that might be lacking on-the-ground measurements like rainforests and deserts in developing countries. Those areas are also home to a number of threatened and endangered species that will face growing pressure from climate change.
Having the best possible environmental data will lead to best species model distribution approach, he said, noting that that modeling could in turn help inform management decisions.Timing of peak cloudiness.
Credit: NASA Earth Observatory
Species distribution modeling incorporates a whole host of environmental data from climate to the type of soil on the ground to get a better view of where individual plants and animals live. Wilson and his colleagues recently authored a study that plugged the new cloud data into a model for two species and found it helped improved their range estimates.
One thing thats been a disconnect between the climate community and the ecological community is this gap in spatial resolution, he said. Using remote sensing like weve done thats capable of directly observing cloud cover is how we can get down to fine spatial resolution.
Climate change is expected to put more stress on plants and animals. That means decisions on how to manage them, what areas to conserve and whether and where to relocate threatened species will take on ever greater importance. The new data could help answer some of those pressing questions.
Because the data is publicly available, users beyond the ecological realm can also play around with it. Wilson told Vox there could be a whole host of applications in the solar industry, which perhaps not surprisingly has a lot invested in the sunny side equation.
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: In Tanzania, This Startup Will Pay For Plastic Trash And Make 3-D Printer Filament
description: It's hard to make a living as a waste picker. In Dar es Salaam, Tanzaniawhere most trash ends up illegally dumpedwaste pickers spend up to 12 hours a day walking around the city, collecting and lugging other people's garbage in long plastic bags. It's a valuable service for the city, which doesn't have a recycling program. But it doesn't pay very well. In a day, a full-time waste picker might make less than $1.50.
A new startup plans to help waste pickers earn more by turning plastic waste into a more valuable product: 3-D printing filament, the plastic thread-like material that 3-D printers use instead of ink. Recycling plastic bottles into filament can help waste pickers increase their incomes by as much as 20 times.
The startup will launch in Dar es Salaam and plans to expand to other cities. Around the world, around 40 million waste pickers currently earn less than $2 a day for their work.
"This is born out of my experience working with social enterprises in Nairobi, Kenyajust seeing waste collectors, how they live, what they have to do for the plastic, and how they struggle to support their families," says Jasper Middendorp, founder of Reflow, the Amsterdam-based startup making the new recycled filament. "It started from seeing what are the ways we could help waste collectors improve their lives, and what are the high value products we could make."
They learned about Tech for Trade, a U.K.-based nonprofit that has developed open-source technology to recycle plastic into 3-D printer filament, and decided to partner with them to create a social enterprise.
"I just saw the huge disparity between what some of the poorest people get for the plastic, which is around seven cents a kilogram, to what filament costs, which is $25 a kilogram," he says. Making filament is a way to get much more value from the plastic than other recycled plastic products, while only using a small amount of material; 120 plastic bottles can produce a kilogram of filament.
Demand for the filament is growing: one forecast suggests that 3-D printer sales will double each year for the next few years. By 2019, 5.6 million 3-D printers will sell in a year.
Reflow plans to work directly with waste pickers to collect plastic, clean and shred it, and use a low-cost extruder to turn it into a finished product. The quality, they say, will be the same as what someone can buy on the market now.
The company is working on various models to pay waste pickers. "The value increase for them is around 20 times what they make now from the plastic they sell, but that's not the best way to go about impactgiving one waste picker 20 times as much as he makes now," says Middendorp. "So we're looking into finding ways to either prolong the impactgive them a sustained level of incomeor spread it out over a larger group."
They also plan to invest in local manufacturing resources, like 3-D printing and CNC milling, to support the growth of the local economy.
As they choose cities to work with, they hope to locate near their biggest markets. For North America, for example, they may work in Mexico. While the technology could also be used to recycle plastic bottles in New York City or San Francisco, Reflow believes the biggest impact of the program is helping the lowest-income waste pickersnot just recycling plastic.
The company thinks that developing countries will eventually also become bigger markets for the product, 3-D printing objects that are currently shipped in from elsewhere. "We think the technology can actually mature in these countries," says Middendorp. "A lot of the problems the technology solves around distribution and transport are bigger there."
Reflow is running a crowdfunding campaign on Kickstarter.
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Biodegradable Leather Is Made From Fermented Tea
description: Young-A Lee makes clothes from tea. Or rather, she cultures the "mother" from kombuchaa fermented teato grow a cellulose gel that can be turned into a vegetable leather. If that sounds a little convoluted, compare it to the process for making regular cowhide leather.
Lee, an associate professor at Iowa State University, created the tea leather as a sustainable alternative to real leather. But it's not so much leather's animal origins that led her to find a better option. It's the waste.
"Fashion companies keep producing new materials and clothing, from season to season, year to year, to fulfill consumers' desire and needs," Lee said at Iowa State. "Think about where these items eventually go. They will take tremendous underground spaces of the Earth like other trash."
Lee's tea-derived fibers are completely biodegradable, so they can become as ephemeral as the fashion cycle that they serve. The cellulose fibers are brewed in a vat and fed with vinegar and sugar. Lee and her team have received a research grant from the Environmental Protection Agency to spin these fibers into clothing. The biggest advantage, apart from not being made out of cow peelings, is that it has an extremely low environmental impact. There are no harmful chemicals to leach into the ground, for instance, and the materials are about as renewable as it's possible to be.
There are many practical problems with Lee's tea leather, though. It's susceptible to moisture, which softens it, and cold, which hardens it to the point of brittleness. It also takes up to four weeks to grow and prepare a batch, although compared to growing and feeding a cow, this is almost instant. The process only seems slow when compared to other artificial fibers.
But perhaps the biggest challenge in making fashion more sustainable is educating those in the industry to take the problem seriously.
"Socially conscious awareness from the consumer end plays a lot," says Lee "[But] employees who work in the fashion industry need to be fully educated on this movement. The key is changing their values to consider the betterment of people and the planet in a long run, instead of focusing ona consumer'sshort-coming interest."
And clothing doesn't need to be fashioned from tea leather to do that. More effective ways to recycle the mountain of discarded clothing that is collected by retailers like H&M is one option. Big-name designers collaborating with ethical manufacturers is another. And of course, we can all help by buying fewer clothes, but of higher quality, so they last longer. But longer-lasting clothing runs counter to the churn of high-street fashion, so low-impact materials like Lee's tea leather are essential. After all, if you can't stop people throwing things away, at least have them throw away stuff that doesn't cause too much damage.
Photos: Christopher Gannon
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Just Listening To The Radio In The Car Makes You A Worse Driver
description: A concept of human perception called Perceptual Load Theory says that we only have so much attention to give. Once the world gets too complex, our brains start to switch off. And unfortunately for commuters everywhere, something as simple as driving with the radio on is enough to make your brain switch off to the point where you're driving dangerously.
"We should focus on keeping our brains on the road."
A 2015 study from the University College Cork's Gillian Murphy, presented last week in Nottingham, England, tested whether traffic reports could distract drivers from driving. Murphy put 36 participants in a full-sized driving simulator, and gave them a task to concentrate on while driving. Half were given a simple taskto listen for when the voice on the radio changed gender. The other half were given a complex taskto listen out for a mention of a specific road.
During one test test, a "large, unexpected visual stimulus" passed by at the side of the road. While 71% of those performing a simple task noticed this stimulus, only 23% of the drivers concentrating on a complex task saw it. And this wasn't some easy-to-miss object. The "large, unexpected visual stimulus" was a gorilla, or an elephant.
lightpoet via Shutterstock
"Road safety campaigns are so focused on telling us to keep our eyes on the road, and this is certainly important," says Murphy, in a press release about the findings. "But this research tells us that it's simply not enough. We should focus on keeping our brains on the road."
By using a traffic report in the tests, the study shows how even everyday "background" noise can be a distraction. You might note at this point that wearing headphones while riding a bike is illegal in many places, and considered dangerous by pretty much everyone except the cyclists doing it, and yet listening to the radio in the car is considered safe. And we can switch our attention away from the radio if we really need to (if we actually managed to notice that gorilla on the sidewalk, for instance). Hands-free phone conversations are a lot harder to ignore, and yet the law doesn't consider them dangerous.
And it's not just gorillas and elephants. The study says that "the results showed that perceptual load dramatically affected driver awareness for visual and auditory stimuli, even those that were driving-relevant and safety critical (e.g., pedestrians or the sound of a car horn)."
If listening to drive-time can make drivers miss car horns, and even pedestrians, then it might be as dangerous as driving home after a few beers.
"Anything that draws our attention away from driving can be problematic," says Murphy. "That doesn't mean that we should ban radios in cars, but that we should all be aware of the limits of our attention."
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Inside The Programs Breaking The Prison CycleBy Employing Former Inmates
description: Larry Thomas is an ambitious guy. In hopes of becoming an electrician, he spent two years studying nine hours a day, five days a week, providing electrical repairs for free to gain experience. Recently he's celebrated his one-year work anniversary at Frischhertz Electric, in New Orleans, where he works as an electrician apprentice.
His years of study took place behind bars, his teachers were other inmates certified to do so, and his hands-on experience came from rewiring prison security cameras.
From this vantage point, Thomas's story looks like the American dreamsmall-town kid works hard to build a better life for himself and his kid. Thomas, originally from Marrero, Louisiana, has performance reviews filled with descriptions like "hard worker," "quick learner," and "eager to advance himself." Though he has four more years of apprenticeship before he can become a full electrician, his future looks bright.
If you look closer, however, a differentand arguably more importantstory is playing out. Just a year ago, Thomas was serving time on a burglary conviction at the Louisiana State Penitentiary in Angola, which is the largest maximum security prison in the nation. His years of study took place behind bars, his teachers were other inmates certified to do so, and his hands-on experience came from rewiring prison security cameras. Now he is a model employee, at the forefront of a new program that connects inmates directly to trade positions on the outside. Frischhertz Electric and more than two dozen other local businesses are clamoring for more employees just like him.
Alexander Chaikin via Shutterstock
Thomas's experience couldn't be more different from that of most former inmates. Though the U.S. incarcerates more of its residents than anywhere else in the world, it is arguably one of the hardest places to find employment if you have a criminal record. Of the 650,000 people released from state prisons each year, up to 75% will still be unemployed a year after their release, often despite applying to hundreds of positions.
The question America needs to be asking itself is whether it's tenable to keep such a large and growing proportion of its population at the fringe.
Though blanket bans on hiring people with criminal records are technically illegal, companies large and small routinely treat a criminal record like a scarlet letter. These automatic disqualifications function to keep ex-offenders at the fringe of the labor market for the rest of their working lives. The damage of this discrimination is compounded by the fact that a disproportionate number of ex-offenders are black and Latino men living in communities that already struggle with widespread unemployment and household poverty.
The question America needs to be asking itself is whether it's tenable to keep such a large and growing proportion of its population at the fringe.
Nearly 70 million people in the U.S. have some kind of criminal record, which means that the "need not apply" philosophy most companies employ is not only bad for former inmates, it's an enormous drain on local and regional economies. To put it in a national context, the Center for Economic and Policy Research estimates that the U.S. economy loses $57 to $65 billion each year because of the underemployment and reduced output of people with felonies and prison records.
Add to this that many of the industries that could provide entry-level, career-track jobssuch as construction, manufacturing, and health careare currently struggling with labor shortages, and America's incarceration epidemic has become a recipe for a stagnant economy.
But what if employers' long-held assumptions about the risks of hiring those with criminal records are wrong? And what if connecting former inmates to good jobs was not only a way to stem high recidivism rates but a way to shore up the nation's economy?
These are the critical questions that will decide whether Thomas's story remains an exception or one day becomes the rule. Grappling with these issues is a small pilot project in New Orleans that is looking to turn the toxic relationship between incarceration and unemployment on its head.
Alexander Chaikin via Shutterstock
Building a Prison to Profession Pipeline
On a map of state incarceration rates, Louisiana has to be assigned its own category because its prison population so outstrips the rest of the country. The state is infamous for imprisoning more people, per capita, than anywhere else in the world, and nowhere are the effects of this over-incarceration more severe than in New Orleans.
Over-incarceration and drug law enforcement in minority communities disproportionately affects people of color such that they make up 60% of the nation's prison population. In New Orleans, 1 in 14 black men are behind bars. And when these men return home, they are relegated to temporary, part-time, and informal positions that pay poorly and inconsistently and live in communities where as many as half of the adult men are out of work. One survey found that even with identical qualifications, having a criminal record reduced the chance of a job callback by 50%. For African-American applicants, that number jumps to 65%. Men who have served time earn 40% less on average per year than their peers who have not been incarcerated.
Even with identical qualifications, a criminal record reduces the chance of a job callback by 50%. For African-Americans, that jumps to 65%.
This was the state of affairs facing Kenneth Polite when he was appointed U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Louisiana (which includes New Orleans) in 2013. As soon as he took office he set out to find examples of programs that could help break down the stigma around hiring the thousands of inmates released into the Louisiana labor market each year.
"We estimate that we'll have 80,000 skilled labor jobs available in Louisiana in the next three years, but local industries are struggling to find in-state talent," says Polite. "We are simply casting away a big percentage of the population who want to join the workforce and become productive, tax-paying citizens."
Polite and his staff found inspiration a thousand miles due north, in Grand Rapids, Michigan, where two local businesses were spearheading an initiative that would enlist 30 companies to each employ two former inmates for two years.
Today this "30-2-2" program has placed 100 employees at 19 companies, all of whom are having their wages, attendance, and performance tracked in hopes of arming local business leaders, policymakers, and advocates with the hard data necessary to make the case for employing "returning citizens."
"We want to prove to the broader business community what we already know here: employing returning citizens works," says Kenyatta Brame, executive vice president at Cascade Engineering, one of the two companies leading the effort.
While companies like Cascade want former inmates to thrive, the 30-2-2 program was born not out of a moral mission, but an economic one. Following skilled labor shortages in the post-recession economy, another Grand Rapids company, Butterball Farms, launched the program as a way to tap into the 12,000 Michiganders released from state prisons each year.
"Unless we cultivate a successful pool of candidates, we won't have enough talent to manage our businesses."
"Unless we cultivate a successful pool of candidates, we won't have enough talent to manage our businesses," Brame says. "That means taking the barriers to employment facing many residents seriously, and learning how to give them the tools they need to live up to their potential."
In 2014, Polite launched a similar program, which they called "30-2+2," in the New Orleans metropolitan area with these lessons in mind. The program was linked to an existing reentry program at Louisiana State Penitentiary in Angola that provides select inmates with job training, mentorship, and life skills. It was through these two programs that Larry Thomas was able to go from prisoner to career-track professional.
Today 25 businesses have signed on to Polite's program and many others have expressed interest. The employers who have hired the eight former inmates placed to date have given overwhelmingly positive feedback.
"Employers were hesitant at first, but the workers have been so excellent that now lots of people are calling," says Jason Schumm, executive director of the South Louisiana Chapter of the National Electrical Contractors Association. Schumm represents two electrical contractors working with the 30-2+2 program. "These workers have a lot of the soft skills that you used to see years ago: They're enthusiastic, they want to do a good job, they take pride in their work, they're punctualthat's refreshing for many of our employers," he says.
Though these programs require an initial investmenta hard sell in states like Louisiana that have seen chronic budget shortfallsPolite now hopes to use data on worker performance and recidivism collected during 30-2+2 to make the case for the cost-effectiveness of investing in preparing inmates for work and connecting them to local employers.
Overcoming Barriers to Employment
Thomas was one of the lucky ones. Had he not been connected to the Angola reentry program and then to 30-2+2 and the local electrical worker's union, his chances of finding a decent, steady job upon release would have been slim.
Stigma, discrimination, and insufficient job experience make it hard work for those reentering society to gain an economic foothold. An explosion in the popularity of online background checks has only further exacerbated the problem. Today more than 90% of employers run background checks, but instead of using this information as one ingredient in the applicant's candidacy, many companies use it to summarily dismiss a candidate.
Today more than 90% of employers run background checks.
Despite a slew of lawsuits challenging these exclusionary hiring practices, some of the nation's largest employers still use overly broad background check requirements, according to the National Employment Law ProjectBank of America, Lowe's, Accenture, and Aramark, to name just a few.
Consider the experience of Jahaun McKinley, 34, of Grand Rapids, who was released after 19 years from prison in 2009 with no job experience other than janitorial work in prison. He picked up short-term manual labor wherever he could to build up his resume, but rejection after rejection piled up. One hiring manager even crumpled up his application in front of him, without reading it, and tossed it into a nearby trash can.
Locked out of most labor markets, banned from ever receiving welfare or food stamps, those with a record like McKinley are often doomed to live paycheck to paycheck, struggling to feed and house themselves and their families.
A chance at stable employment, of course, helps them beat the odds against them. For McKinley, this chance came in the form of an entry-level job at Cascade Engineering, where the company's on-the-job training and mentorship unlocked McKinley's potential as a worker. Six years and two promotions later, he is a manager overseeing six plastic manufacturing plants, and one of Cascade's best employees.
Alexander Chaikin via Shutterstock
Charting a New Path Toward Full Employment
So what's going right in Grand Rapids and New Orleans? Both programs would not have succeeded if they were only about employing ex-offenders. What was required was cultivating their broader potential through training, mentorship, and in some cases, logistical support.
Cascade has a full-time case manager on staff to help employees troubleshoot issues with transportation, housing, and child care that can lead to absenteeism, especially for those still getting back on their feet post-incarceration. Hiring a case manager, whose salary is split between Cascade and the Michigan Department of Human Services, has dramatically decreased costly turnover and missed work. Cascade also partners with local community organizations that provide preliminary job training to recently released inmates to prepare them for the workplace and trains its own employees to be mentors to new hires.
In New Orleans, the 30-2+2 program is pulling candidates from the Angola reentry program, where inmates receive an impressive array of hard and soft skillstwo years of vocational training in real-world trades such as welding, automotive repair, and the culinary arts; intensive cognitive behavioral therapy (including anger management); parenting and substance abuse counseling; and more than 100 hours of other soft skills training.
"I just kept doing the right thing, taking advice from my mentors, and now I see I can go somewhere."
This program completely changed the trajectory of Thomas's future. "Three years ago I could have never seen myself where I am today," he says. "I just kept doing the right thing, taking advice from my mentors, and now I see I can go somewhere, I can be someone, I can be an asset to my company."
Thomas is just one of millions of American workers with a criminal record trying to build a stable life in the face of stigma and discriminatory policies. And how the nation handles the future of these workerswhether we continue to banish them to the sidelines of society or choose to empower their potential and talenthas enormous ramifications for our success as a nation.
While America's incarceration problem commonly makes headlines, its post-incarceration problem receives far too little attention. The nation spends $70 billion on prisons, probation, parole, and detention per year. In return, this investment has given us abysmal recidivism rates, billions of dollars in lost productivity and tax revenue, and a large and growing population of "unemployable" workers that stymie economic growth and prosperity at the community, regional, and national levels. But advocates like Polite and Brame are convinced it doesn't have to be that way.
Just this month, President Obama acknowledged the importance of supporting prisoner reentry into the workforce with a new program to support community advocates who are helping former inmates "rehabilitate and reintegrate." Last week the President proposed a rule that would "ban the box" on all federal job applications, meaning that employers would have to consider a job candidate's qualifications before asking about criminal history. More than a hundred cities and counties representing 21 states have passed similar "ban the box" policies thanks to ongoing advocacy campaigns. Scaling localized initiatives like Angola's reentry program and 30-2+2 could expand access to life-changing pathways to job training and job placement.
For Polite, shifting the narrative around the talent and potential of former inmates is the crucial first step in the road to recovery. Polite says he can make a moral case for why this is important, an economic one, or a workforce one, but it all boils down to the same truth: "We are not safer as a country, we've doomed the same people to cycle through the prison system, and we're robbing ourselves of potential workers."
Courtney Hutchison is senior communications associate at PolicyLink and a N.Y.C.-based writer. She produces stories for the PolicyLink America's Tomorrow newsletter, which highlights campaigns, leaders, policies, reports, and local models that build an equitable economy.
This article was written by Courtney Hutchison from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: What Happened To The Mosquito-Zapping Laser That Was Going To Stop Malaria?
description: Six years ago at TED, former Microsoft CTO and general genius Nathan Myhrvold demonstrated a "photonic fence" that uses lasers to track and obliterate disease-carrying mosquitoes.
Everyone got so excited (even this site), about the potential of ending the malaria crisis with such a simple display of anti-mosquito aggression.
Six years later, it seems that mosquitoes are still flying, unmolested by deadly lasers. So what happened to the idea? Did it fly, or enter the trash can of history?
The answer is that the project is doing quite wellbut perhaps not in the revolutionary manner that would keep generating the same breathless headlines. But the technology has been licensed out for commercial use. The U.S. Commerce Department is paying for a demonstration in Germany this month. And field trials are set to begin in the third quarter. The "mosquito laser" has legseven if some still think killing mosquitoes with lasers is a bit overelaborate.
Arty Makagon is the project lead at Intellectual Ventures (IV), Myhrvold's product development company. He says the fence has killed 10,000 mosquitoes in tests so far, and could be deployed at up to 100 meters across. Linked together, multiple laser fences could potentially protect a large area.
IV originally saw the fence as a malaria solution for the developing world. But it's now focused on other uses, including hospitality (protecting hotels from bugs) and agriculture. "We're going to deploy this in the developed world first. So the system is economically viable, and then come back and deploy across the developing world for malaria eradication," Makagon says.
The system uses a low-energy laser beam and a reflective surface to create a silhouette of insects passing through. Once the machine recognizes a mosquito (or other insect), it alerts a stronger, green laser that zaps the airborne animal for quarter of a second, disabling or killing them.
The idea is to erect a fence of lasers between where mosquitoes are breeding and where they go looking for human blood (around a village, say). Makagon says the machine can kill 99% of the insects it identifies, and that mosquitoes are unlikely to fly over the fence: Experiments show that 95% fly below half a meter, he says.
Makagon points to several potential advantages. First, you don't need so much chemical spray, or have to worry that insects are building resistance to whatever you're using. Second, the machine can count insects, helping wider eradication efforts.
"Aside from being a local insect control application, it also collects data that you can aggregate and share with the local government, so perhaps they can do integrated pest management," he says. "We don't think the fence is going to replace all insect control, but, because of its unique features, it can inform other interventions, so you don't need to spray across an entire area."
Frankly, it doesn't sound like the photonic fence is going to be the thing that "zaps malaria" as that original TED talk suggested it might. But perhaps it could have uses in tracking and killing some insects, and help wider insect-repelling efforts. That wouldn't be a bad start.
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: How to Build a Personal Brand Without Being Obnoxious
description: If you want to find out more about someonea first date, a potential employer or employee, an influencer on social mediawhats the first thing you do? You Google them. And what you'll discover is their personal brand.Personal branding is the new normal. Its no longer reserved for celebrities, politicians, or reality TV stars. In 2016, you need to be conscious of what your personal brand is, because whether you know it or not, you have one. And if youre not deliberately branding yourself, the outside world is branding you.
Choosing Yourself
Were living in what investor and entrepreneur James Altucher refers to as the Choose Yourself era. Taking control of your personal brand is the smartest way to secure your professional future.
Take YouTube powerhouse Michelle Phan, for example. As a young student with a passion for makeup, she applied to a department stores Lancme counter for a weekend position. She was rejected.
A few years later she was hired by Lancme, but not to work at a beauty counter. She became their first official video ambassador after her relatable makeup tutorials on YouTube were viewed by millions.
Phan chose herself by putting her creativity out into the world and not waiting for anyone to choose her. No one gave her permissionshe just did the work consistently. Now her brand is worth an estimated $84 million.
Solid personal branding will allow you to hedge against an uncertain job market and uncover opportunities.
If youre an entrepreneur or working on a side hustle, your personal brand is critical to your business growth. Even if youre a happy full-timer at a company you love, solid personal branding will allow you to hedge against an uncertain job market and uncover opportunities you may not otherwise have access to. Focus on what you want to build in terms of your brand (e.g., skills, experience, credibility, reputation, trustworthiness, exposure) and you'll be ahead of the game for opportunities now and later. Its never too soon (or too late) to get serious about building your personal brand!
As an employee-turned-entrepreneur, Ive come up with five steps for creating a personal brand that packs a punch and feels true to you.1. Define your "shtick."
Are you a travel-obsessed photographer? A yoga teacher who helps students find their bliss? A quirky writer with a passion for Hollywood entertainment? Get clear on what you love and make this the foundational message you share with the world. It will likely change over time, but just start with something that feels right today.
Craft an elevator pitch about your passion, stating who you are and how you serve others. For example, a graduate of my side-hustle course crafted this:Im Louise, a personal trainer. I help busy LA moms fit into their pre-pregnancy jeans and feel strong and sexy in the process. I do one-on-one training over a 12-week program. My clients say Im the best because not only do I help them create Jennifer Aniston-esque abs and arms, but I support them in taking care of themselves first.
When I was a full-time employee, I still introduced myself as a life coach. I wanted to be known for this (not my corporate job).
2. Share it with others.
Why do people follow you and engage with you? Funny enough, its not because of you at all. Its about what you do to educate, inspire, and entertain your audience. Check out some the feeds of Insta-celebs. Notice how their feeds are consistent in look, feel, and style.
They might veer a little to give you a personal peek (like a cup of coffee in bed or a vacation snap), but overall the comedians stick to jokes, the fashionistas stick to looks of the day, and the life coaches geek out with inspirational quotes (guilty). Stick to one or two mediums that best suit your style. A couple well-managed accounts are much better than a half-assed post on multiple mediums every seven weeks.
3. Create, create, create!
Original content creation is and always will be king. Executed-upon ideas are the currency of the new economy we find ourselves in. The good news? Youre basically three clicks way from creating a blog post, a video, and a point of view as an online commentator. Dont shy away from using your voiceyour uniqueness is your value!
Dont shy away from using your voiceyour uniqueness is your value!
As a professional in any field, you can use LinkedIn to publish ideas about your industry, making you an instant thought leader. Or be bold and create a website on Wordpress or Tumblr this weekI dare you. If you hired a branding coach, they would hold you accountable for doing this within seven days. So get to it!4. Show up and connect.
Who else do you look up to in your field? Connect with them! As much as Id love to have a cup of tea with Oprah, I try to connect with personal development coaches and writers on my level all the time. I join their Facebook conversations, comment on their articles, tweet their witty one-liners, and build virtual friendships.
Your community of like-minded people can help you succeed by sharing ideas, connections, and advice. We're all wired for connection, so there is no need to be shy in making the first virtual moveleave a comment or introduce yourself via email to someone you look up to. Over time other people will appreciate your engagement and reciprocate.
5. Don't forget real life.
Nothingnothingbeats an old-fashioned personal connection. If more than a decade in corporate sales taught me anything, its the value of relationships formed in living color. The best part? You make lifelong friends this way. I never really worry about work-life balance, because to me, theres no separation. I love my work so much, so how can that be separate from my life? Its a massive part of who I am.
At a party I hosted recently at my home, some of my clients came, as did my neighbors, colleagues, and editors. These folks are all my beloved, treasured, dear friends. How freakin awesome! In fact, that's how Ive come to measure successwhen the line between work and play is so beautifully blurred its nonexistent.
The Takeaway
If you want to take charge of your success and take advantage of opportunities now and in the future, make building your personal brand a priority. Be an authentic person and friend. Know what you stand for. Be clear on how to explain how you serve the world and dont be shy about it. Share your ideas, thoughts, and creativity. Give to others. And keep your phone in your pocket next time youre at a partyyou never know who you might meet.
Most importantly, dont hold back being yourself! There never has been and never will be another you, and that is your power.
Susie Moore is Greatists life coach columnist and a confidence coach in New York City. Sign up for her free weekly wellness tips on her website and check back every Tuesday for her latest No Regrets column!
This article was written by Susie Moore from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 17 Easy Low-Carb Dinners
description: Despite (or maybe because of) endless research, the confusion surrounding carbohydrates remains real. For the record, carbs are not evil. (In fact, they're part of an overall healthy diet.) However, that doesn't mean you should be OD'ing on them (especially the crappy, processed kind).
Cutting back on carbswhatever your reasondoesn't mean you have to go full-on Atkins or Paleo, either. For a reasonable way to control your consumption, nutrition experts, like registered dietitian Elizabeth Jarrard, refer to the Mayo Clinics guidelines, which recommend 60-130 grams of quality carbohydrates a day (read: whole grains and fiber-rich produce). That leaves you with about 15 to 25 grams for dinner, Jarrard says. The delicious dishes below meet that low-carb criteria and are a cinch to whip up.
Beef and PorkPhoto: My Life Cookbook1. Low-Carb Sausage and Egg Noodles
Carbs per serving: 8.5 grams
At first glance, it looks like any other mound of flat, silky tagliatelle. A closer look reveals a tangle of noodles actually made out of eggs. Essentially a thin omelet cut up into ribbons before getting topped with a meaty Bolognese-like sauce, this is one of those genius recipes that will leave you wondering why you hadn't made it sooner.Photo: A Tasty Mess2. Stuffed Baby Eggplants
Carbs per serving (two eggplants): 25 grams
Eggplant is often used as a meat substitute because of its hearty texture, but in this recipe, you can have both. Get all the veggie-riffic fiber and cancer-fighting compounds from the eggplant without missing out on the protein from the garlicky ground beef mixture in this super-substantial meal.Photo: Buns In My Oven3. Sausage Egg Roll in a Bowl
Carbs per serving: 5.9 grams
This deconstructed version of a Chinese takeout staple skips the wrappers and gets right to the good stuff inside. In other words, not only does the carb count get slashed, but so does the prep time. More benefits to going wrapper-less? You can enjoy a lot more of the meat and vegetables than would fit into a little egg roll, and no deep-frying means a considerably lower amount of fat.Photo: High Heels and Grills4. Philly Cheesesteak Tinfoil Dinner
Carbs per serving: 17.9 grams
Even Philly cheesesteak purists may want to get in on this foil-pack version. It stays pretty true to the basic components of the classic sandwich, including peppers, onions, provolone cheese, and of course, the meat. The main difference? Instead of enriched rolls, lower-glycemic Russet potatoes are used, providing just enough carb-y satisfaction without overdoing it.
PoultryPhoto: Lauren's Latest5. Turkey Meatloaf Florentine
Carbs per serving: 11.2 grams
Meatloaf just got a bit of a nutritional face-lift, thanks to two whopping cups of spinach mixed into lean meat. It gives the dish a powerful punch of vitamin K and swirls of pretty green color! Plus, even without skimping on bread crumbs and ketchup, one generous serving of this clocks in at just 11 grams of carbs.Photo: The Fit Blog6. Stuffed Chicken Breast
Carbs per serving: 3 grams
With garlic, fresh basil, and mozzarella tucked inside the meat, this dish could almost be seen as a low-carb calzoneand we've never met a stuffed pizza we didn't like. Packed with additional ingredients like artichoke hearts and curry powder, it's another recipe that takes boring chicken breast from womp-womp to wow.Photo: Kendra's Treats7. Zucchini Pizza Casserole
Total carbs: 6.4 grams
Spiralized zucchini is all the rage in the low-carb world, but put a pause on zoodles and shred the veggie with a grater instead for this noodle-free casserole. Stirred with egg whites and cheese as binders, it'll firm up to form a crust-like base for the meat and sauce, without a bread crumb in sight.Photo: Wholesomelicious8. Creamy Lemon Chicken With Asparagus and Mushrooms
Carbs per serving: 5 grams
The pairing of coconut oil and coconut milk makes sure the chicken breasts in this 30-minute meal are anything but dry, while the garlic and lemon zest guarantees the protein is far from bland. With asparagus and mushrooms joining the party (and bringing fiber with them), you really won't miss a starchy side.Photo: Healthful Pursuit9. Low-Carb Chicken "Noodle" Soup
Carbs per serving: 9 grams
Starches and sugars may be known as "feel good" food, but this carb-light version of a comfort-food favorite manages to keep things just as cozy with noodles made fromwait for itspiralized daikon! The vitamin C-rich Japanese root veggie is a lot more readily available than you might think; find it at your local supermarket and get your soup on ASAP.
SeafoodPhoto: Little Spice Jar10. Shrimp Stuffed Portobello Mushrooms
Carbs per serving: 10 grams
Take stuffed mushrooms from finger food to main meal-worthy by using larger, vitamin D-packed portobellos and filling them with a satiating, protein-rich mix of shrimp, eggs, and cheese. This is one time when "supersizing" is actually good for you.Photo: A Spicy Perspective11. Oven-Baked Salmon With Parmesan Herb Crust
Carbs per serving: 3.4 grams
With a golden brown crust encasing perfectly cooked salmon, this fish dinner may look fancy schmancy, but it's actually super easy to make. Just coat the salmon with the buttery bread crumb and Parmesan mixture, and then it's a simple job for the oven. Perfect for easy, healthy entertaining!Photo: Healthy Helper Blog12. Hawaiian Tuna Burgers
Carbs per serving: 9 grams
Spicy from the red pepper flakes, sweet from the pineapple chunks, and hearty from the almond meal and generously packed tuna, these burgers have so much flavor on their own, it'd almost be a disservice to hide them between buns. Scarf down two of the satisfying patties for fewer carbs than a standard slice of bread.Photo: Skinny Taste13. Jalapeo Shrimp Cakes
Carbs per serving: 5 grams
With just two tablespoons of bread crumbs in four servings, these tender patties allow the seafood to take center stage. The shrimp are pulsed, so they hold together without needing more starchy support. They're then spiced up with a touch of jalapeo and topped with avocado for a light and fresh meal.
MeatlessPhoto: Minimalist Baker14. Vegan Eggplant Lasagna Roll-Ups
Carbs per serving: 17.4 grams
This lasagna doesn't just do away with the noodles, it's also dairy-free and without the time-consuming layering process. A blend of protein-packed tofu and nutritional yeast for anemia-fighting vitamin B12 creates a ricotta-like filling to be rolled into soft strips of eggplant. Topped with marinara, it's a colorful and lower-cholesterol way to enjoy a traditionally heavy dish.Photo: Kara Lydon15. Gluten-Free Black Bean and Jalapeo Cauliflower Tostadas
Carbs per serving: 18.7 grams
Going easy on carbs doesn't mean shutting them out entirelynot only are they a key macronutrient group, they're also yummy. This recipe shows you how complex, fiber-rich, slow-digesting varieties like black beans can fit into your low-carb lifestyle, giving you the energy you need while staying well within conventional guidelines.Photo: Apple of My Eye16. Italian Quinoa Protein Patties
Carbs per serving (two patties): 9 grams
A generous handful of bread crumbs, two full cups of quinoa, and still only 9 grams of carbohydrates per serving? It can be donewhen they're divided between 15 servings! Make no mistake, though. These aren't puny patties. Thanks to ingredients like eggs, cheese, and a variety of veggies to add bulk without more starch, just a couple of these with a side salad can be a satisfying evening meal.Photo: Taste Space17. Chinese Sweet and Sour Cabbage With Tofu
Carbs per serving: 14.3 grams
Transform a head of cabbageor a bag of cabbage slaw, if you're in a pinchinto a fragrant, bold dish worthy of the center spot on your dining table. When wilted, the shreds almost take on the appearance and texture of noodles, so it'll feel like you're slurping up a giant bowl of lo mein, when instead you're getting in more than a cup of veggies and more than half of your daily recommended intake of vitamin C.
This article was written by Anisha Jhaveri from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The 3 Foods to Avoid for a Healthier Gut (and Why It Matters)
description: Gut bacteriathe trillions of microorganisms living in your digestive tractmay not be the sexiest subject, but its a hot topic in the health world lately. And for good reason: Over the past decade, research has brought to light how your gut microbiome (that's what science types call it) plays a role in almost every aspect of health, including digestion, immunity, fat storage, and heart health.1
Studies suggest a healthy gut may even help clear up skin conditions, such as eczema and acne, and may make you less susceptible to stress, anxiety, and depressiona finding thats earned the microbiome the nickname second brain.2
Like most things in life, its all about balance: You want the good bacteria (like lactobacillus) to outweigh the bad bacteria. If this balance is thrown off, it can lead to a compromised immune system, inflammation, more fat storage, and other adverse effects.3
Unfortunately, its not as easy as simply letting the good bacteria flourish. Theres a lot out of your control that affects your microbiomesuch as where you live, where you were raised, and personal lifestyle. But there is one major way to influence your gut health thats 100-percent in your control: what you eat.
Certainly, there are foods you should be eating (think: yogurt and fermented foods like kimchi or sauerkraut) to boost gut health. But theres another important piece of the puzzle: Cutting back on particular foods is also crucial to ensure a happy homeostasis for those microscopic bugs. Here are the top three.
1. Conventional Meats and PoultryAt some point, weve all taken a course of antibiotics, which are designed to do pretty much what it sounds like: kill bacteria. But antibiotics dont discriminatethey go after good and bad bacteria alike. While you shouldnt refuse the meds your doc prescribes, research shows consuming antibiotics when unnecessary can do serious damage to your gut flora.4
If youre eating meat from livestock thats been treated with antibiotics, you may be exposed to extra antibiotics without realizing it, studies suggest.5 While the use of some antimicrobial drugs in livestock to treat diseases is approved by the FDA, concerns arise when they're used to help animals gain weight or when drugs intended for human consumption are given to animals, which has been linked to antibiotic resistance in humans. These concerns have prompted some of the biggest poultry producers in the U.S., including Perdue and Tyson, to resolve to curtail antibiotic use in their chickens.
The best way to avoid antibiotic-raised meat? Buy organic, says Brooke Alpert, M.S., R.D., a Culturelle spokesperson. Its pricier than the conventional kind, but you can make it easier on your wallet by going to a local butcher or farmers market, or buying in bulk and freezing leftovers for later, Alpert says. Natural can also be less pricey and still antibiotic free, but not always. Do a little digging, Alpert suggests: If the labeling says specifically no hormones and no antibiotics, youre in the clear.
2. Artificial SweetenersIf you thought fake sugar was a miracle sent from heaven to make all things sweeter sans calories, think again, Alpert says. Research suggests that sucralosethe main ingredient in Splendacan significantly alter the balance of bacteria in the microbiome.6 In one small study, after consuming artificial sweeteners for just one week, many of the participants began to develop glucose intolerancethe first step on a path to metabolic syndrome, diabetes, and a host of other health issues. Its scary that one food additive can have that big of an influence on your gut, Alpert says.
And there are plenty of ways to sweeten things up without resorting to the fake stuffhere are 30 smart substitutes. Not that were not giving you the go-ahead to eat all the real sugar you want: Since bad bacteria feed off sugars, a diet high in real sugars has also been linked to an off-balance microbiome, so youll still want to cut back on any kind of sweet stuff, Alpert says.
3. Genetically Modified SoyWhile fermented soy is good for you, it may be wise to cut back on soy products that have been genetically modified (GM)and if youre eating them in the U.S., they most likely have been, as 94 percent of soybeans in America are GM. GMO food is a point of contention in the national health conversation, but thats another story altogether. The point here is that the herbicide used on GMO crops in the U.S. (a.k.a. Roundup) has been shown to kill off many species of beneficial gut bacteria in animals (but not enough evidence conclusively shows the same for humans). While research in this area is still ongoing, there arent many good reasons to choose to eat GM soy. It also contains phytic acid, which messes with digestion and has been linked to gastric issues, such as gas and bloating.
The Bottom Line
If you've been chowing down on conventional chicken, Splenda, and soy products on the reg, don't freak outit's not the worst thing you can do for your health. But if you've been experiencing symptoms like wacky digestive issues (gas or bloating) or fatigue, these are signs that your gut isn't as healthy as it could be, Alpert says. Get your bacteria back on track by cutting back on the above items, adding in beneficial foods for your gut, and taking a probiotic supplement.
Works Cited
The gut microbiota as an environmental factor that regulates fat storage. Bckhed F, Ding H, Wang T. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, 2004, Oct.;101(44):0027-8424. Beneficial modulation of the gut microbiota. Walsh CJ, Guinane CM, O'Toole PW. FEBS letters, 2014, Mar.;588(22):1873-3468.
Effects of the probiotic Bifidobacterium infantis in the maternal separation model of depression. Desbonnet L, Garrett L, Clarke G. Neuroscience, 2010, Aug.;170(4):1873-7544.
Influence of gut microbiota on subclinical inflammation and insulin resistance. Carvalho BM, Saad MJ. Mediators of inflammation, 2013, Jun.;2013():1466-1861.
Gut microbiota disturbance during antibiotic therapy: a multi-omic approach. Prez-Cobas AE, Gosalbes MJ, Friedrichs A. Gut, 2012, Dec.;62(11):1468-3288.
Food commensal microbes as a potentially important avenue in transmitting antibiotic resistance genes. Wang HH, Manuzon M, Lehman M. FEMS microbiology letters, 2006, Mar.;254(2):0378-1097. Characterization of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus isolates from food and food products of poultry origin in Germany. Fessler AT, Kadlec K, Hassel M. Applied and environmental microbiology, 2011, Jul.;77(20):1098-5336.
Splenda alters gut microflora and increases intestinal p-glycoprotein and cytochrome p-450 in male rats. Abou-Donia MB, El-Masry EM, Abdel-Rahman AA. Journal of toxicology and environmental health. Part A, 2008, Oct.;71(21):1528-7394.
This article was written by Locke Hughes from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Woman Is Walking 1,000 Miles Topless for an Important Reason
description: Queen Bey and her entire crew of female warriors are serious about making lemonade when life gives you lemons. Paulette Leaphart, who appeared in the "Lemonade" video, isn't ashamed of her double mastectomy scars, as she explains in this powerful promo video for Scar Story, an inspirational documentary that will follow her 1,000-mile walk from Mississippi to Washington, D.C. Leaphart was initially ashamed of her scars, but after realizing that we all live with scars (either physical or emotional), she decided to show them offand show everyone that "this is what breast cancer looks like" and that it's not a "pretty story wrapped up in a pretty pink bow."
She plans to end the walk on her 50th birthday, which she says is an important tribute to all the women who didn't make it to age 50. Her mission is inspiring whether or not you have been impacted by breast cancer, especially her final words: "I define menot my breasts, not my hair color, not my size 2 or my size 40. I define me."
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Global Warming Is Starving West Coast Waters of Oxygen
description: Just west of Los Angeles, decimated populations of spiny rockfish rummage for prey among bush-like corals. Cold currents from deep valleys wash nutrients between the Channel Islands, fertilizing plants that are eaten by fish. The fish are eaten by dolphins and pelicans and served with fries to diners watching ocean sunsets from Venice Beach.
Rockfish populations that crashed off the southern Californian coast in the 1990s have been protected by fishing rules and marine parks. But climate change is making a natural threat to the fish even worse.
As atmospheric pollution warms the planet and its seas, oxygen levels are declining in the oceans, making it harder for the bottom-dwelling fish to breathe.Swells roll past the Channel Islands into Venice Beach, where they break.
Credit:Chris Goldberg/Flickr
Ocean warming is projected to continue reducing oxygen levels in some hotspots that are naturally low in oxygen, such as the eastern Pacific Ocean. The oxygen declines in coastal waters like Californias threaten to create invisible chemical barriers, boxing vulnerable wildlife into smaller territories.
The importance of oxygen loss has been underestimated or overlooked by ocean scientists, said Lisa Levin, a Scripps Institution of Oceanography professor who is helping to pioneer research into the problem.
Levins lab published a study last week revealing the heavy influence of oxygen levels on the biodiversity of worms, molluscs and other creatures that live in West Coast mud, which are eaten by rockfish and other marine predators.
{related}
As oceans warm, fish and other sea animals need more oxygen, yet the sea water they breathe holds less of it. Ocean circulation changes caused by global warming can also reduce oxygen levels below the oceans surface, where its absorbed from the atmosphere.
Thats jeopardizing fisheries already afflicted by overfishing, wetland losses, water pollution, ocean warming and ocean acidification.
For some things that cant move, its going to kill them, Levin said. For things that can swim away, its going to shrink their habitat.
Oxygen levels can be highly variable, and scientists are still trying to untangle the role climate change may have played in declining West Coast oxygen levels since the 1980s, some of which coincided with local ocean cooling.
Scripps and federal government scientists calculated in 2010 that the oxygen declines could reduce cowcod habitat in protected Southern California Bight areas by 18 percent by the 2020s, if trends continued.
Ocean warming and ocean acidification have had much more attention, Levin said. The people who have been studying changes in oxygen didnt raise the issue about global declines until probably eight years ago, and havent focused on communicating to the media, to the public, everywhere it needs to go.
Levin led a three-person Scripps research team that analyzed data from biological surveys of ocean mud using advanced statistical techniques. They reported last week in the journal Proceedings of the Royal Society B that oxygen levels appear to have more influence than temperature or a measure of acidity over the number of small mud-dwelling species found on West Coast coastlines.
The results were very different when the researchers examined samples from a different region. In the Arabian sea, the scientists discovered that the measure of ocean acidity was more closely tied to biodiversity levels than oxygen concentrations.Cowcod are recovering from overfishing off the southern California coast, but oxygen declines threaten their revival.
Credit:John Butler, NOAA
The finding helped to illuminate the local and regional nature of the low-oxygen threat, and the complex relationships between warming, acidification and oxygen depletion that are being caused by climate change.
If more data were available from another area, such as the East African coast, I suspect that may be different as well, said Nancy Rabalais, a Louisiana Universities Marine Consortium professor who was not involved with the research.
Rabalais said the new Scripps study could help scientists predict how the three major ocean changes caused by global warming
warming, acidification and deoxygenation
could affect biodiversity in key marine habitats.
Each of the trifecta of global warming impacts tends to harm wildlife. Each of those impacts could be slowed if a United Nations climate treaty, which was negotiated in Paris in December, succeeds in sharply curbing fossil fuel use and deforestation.
Scientists point out that battered marine ecosystems would have greater chances of surviving impacts from warming if overfishing, plastic pollution and habitat destruction are also curbed. Marine parks can also help.
Extreme oxygen shortfalls already occur in seasonal dead zones, such as in the Gulf of Mexico, which is caused by farming and sewage pollution. By warming seawater, climate change can make dead zones bigger.
In areas where oxygen levels are naturally low, including off the West Coast and in the eastern Atlantic and southern Indian oceans, recent modeling showed climate change is already worsening the problem
which can fuel severe oxygen shortfalls that scientists call hypoxia.
Those impacts were projected by computer models to spread to additional regions during future years and decades. Some high-oxygen parts of oceans, by contrast, might not experience any impacts from the declines this century, the research showed.
Its hard to attribute a single year of hypoxia to warming, said Curtis Deutsch, a professor at the University of Washington who contributed to the modeling analysis, which was published this year in the journal Global Biogeochemical Cycles. And yet, at the same time, we expect it to become more frequent.The recent modeling study projected when current high rates of climate pollution would cause oxygen declines to become evident.
Credit: Long et al., "Finding forced trends in oceanic oxygen,"Global Biogeochemical Cycles, 2016.
Scientists like Deutsch are turning to models to try to understand how climate change may be influencing oxygen levels in oceans. Those concentrations are influenced by a confounding array of natural and human factors, and they havent been well measured.
There are parts of the ocean where models predict that we can be detecting real, long-term changes in the ocean that are distinct from natural fluctuations right now, Deutsch said. For fisheries, it hasnt been detected in data, but all of the indicators point toward this being an important concern for the future.
The modeling study honed in on oxygen impacts in the open ocean, but it didnt reveal or project more complicated changes in coastal regions, such as in the colorful coral and sponge habitats of the Southern California Bight.
The findings from the modeling runs corroborated those from similar studies that have been published in recent years.
These are very expected results, said John Dunne, a National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration biogeochemist and climate modeler who has researched the topic.
Dunne said impacts from projected oxygen declines will matter most in parts of the ocean where levels are naturally low to begin with, such as along the West Coast, including the waters off Los Angeles.
Changes in southern California may already be squeezing decimated populations of fish that are popular with fishermen and diners, such as cowcod and other rockfish, into dangerously small territories, further threatening their survival.
At high levels of oxygen, it doesnt matter, Dunne said. At low levels of oxygen, it matters a great deal.
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The 4 Things That All Good Listeners Do
description: Odds are youre a pretty awful listenerbut its not totally your fault. We spend most of our lives focused on speaking, from being coached on our first mama or dada to learning how to give an oral presentation in high school. With such an emphasis on talking, its no surprise that most of us fail to master the other half of conversation: listening. This video from The School of Life fills in the gap by explaining four things that good listeners do.
1. They egg people on.
Simply saying go on is usually enough. This forces a conversation to go deeper than just an exchange of anecdotes.
2. They urge clarification.
Pushing someone to clarify what they're talking about leads to greater understanding for both the listener and the speaker.
3. They dont moralize.
They encourage vulnerability and indicate they can be trusted with the other person's deepest feelings, failures, and irrational thoughts.
4. They separate disagreement from criticism.
Itd be foolish (and boring) to agree with every single person on every single topic. Good listeners make it clear they still like and respect the other person, even when they disagree.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Breaking The Myth Of Being Self-Made
description: So why are we so myopic when thinking about our own success and why do we project this point of view on others? How has the idea of hard work become so prevalent that we have developed blinders to so many other factors?
Some could suggest it's a cultural thing. After all it is relatively unique to Americans. We are the land of pioneers and go-getters, so we frame our story in this context. Others would say it goes even further back to the ideals of Puritanism and Calvinism where hard work is chief among virtues. And yet others would suggest a more selfish and modern interpretation. Americans are more self-centered, so naturally they would see success through a frame that centered around self-determination.
Rooted in each of these is the distinction between what we actually experience and what we ultimately remember. Nobel Prize winner in Economics, Daniel Kahneman, articulated these two selves in his research summarized in his book, Thinking Fast and Slow. If we reflect back on our own lives, there may be times when we "experienced" excruciating pain but our remembering self may instead recall the humorous circumstances surrounding them and therefore recall the pain as less than it really was. So as we go about our lives, our actual experiences will matter less to "who we are" than to how we internalize these experiences as part of our "remembering self." The "remembering self" dominates how we see ourselves and our livesincluding stories about how we achieved success.
This is excerpted from Moving Up, a series by Robert McKinnon about getting ahead in America. For updates, sign up here.
As Kahneman writes, "Odd as it may seem. I am my remembering self, and my experiencing self, who does my living, is like a stranger to me."
This serves as a revelatory explanation for why two people who share similar life experiences that lead them to similar levels of success can see their paths so differently. It isn't the path that matters. It's how they remember that path.
A WORD ABOUT MYTHS
In his blog, best-selling author, entrepreneur and my neighbor Seth Godin had this to write about myths:
"In fact, The War of the Worlds did not cause mass hysteria when it first aired. It was a story fanned by radio-fearing tabloid newspapers.
In fact, Pam (eBay founder Pierre's wife) did not need a place to buy and sell Pez dispensers. This is a tale invented by a PR person and repeated by tech-phobic journalists eager for a simple story.
In fact, Columbus wasn't surrounded by flat-earth believing denialists before he 'discovered' America. This was amplified by Washington Irving (!) in a book that was largely invented without much research.
And George Washington didn't cut down the cherry tree and Robin Hood didn't do all those cool tricks in green tights.
The media isn't the one that needs a narrative... we do. We need to make sense of what's around us, not just the true things that really happened, but the fictional ones that we know didn't.
All this myth making reminds us just how strongly wired we are to believe in things that both make sense and feel right. They feel right because of who told us, and when. Culture creates reality."
At an event my organization hosted on the topic of the American Dream, Isabel Sawhill, a nationally known budget expert and co-director of the Center on Children and Families at the Brookings Institution, echoed this sentiment when talking about why people don't buy that social mobility is more limited in America than the American Dream story suggests. "People need to believe this is true. They need to believe that if they work hard, they can make it. And it's healthy and positive that they have that belief, even if reality suggests otherwise. After all, what's the alternative?"
THE MYTH OF INDIVIDUALISM
Ralph Waldo Emerson and Horatio Alger were born nearly 30 years apart in towns separated by only 20 miles in Concord and Chelsea, Massachusetts, respectively. And both are probably rolling in their graves over how their legacies have been so badly misappropriated. Emerson and "American Self-Reliance" have become synonymous terms.
His words and quotes have often been used to reinforce the pioneering, go-it-alone, rugged heroism associated with early America. And by extension, his words have been co-opted to reinforce the idea that all Americans have a personal responsibility to themselves, for themselves. But the same sage who once said, "Make the most of yourself, for that is all there is of you," also said, "Make yourself necessary to somebody." Similarly in Ragged Dick (1868), and many of the other stories penned by Horatio Alger, a young boy (Dick) was able to "pull himself up by his bootstraps" to achieve the American Dream despite a dire situation facing him. The "Horatio Alger Story" is one of the predominant and lasting American narratives.
The net definition of success wasn't extreme wealth, but a middle-class place in society and a good reputation.
The only problem is that many have reinterpreted this, and other stories like it, in such a way as to lose much of the original meaning. They are now used to suggest a literal "rags to riches" story where, through sheer hard work and determination, one can amass great wealth and success. What is lost is a concern for others that was always a central theme in his stories. The net definition of success wasn't extreme wealth, but a middle-class place in society and a good reputation. Additionally, in almost all Horatio Alger stories, the protagonist is aided by a small coterie of friends and strangers who help make his success possible. The themes of self-reliance and personal responsibility as a means to amassing unlimited success is no doubt an appealing story. But it is a simplified narrative that has created an indelible impression among many Americans that there is neither responsibility nor the need to take care of one another, including those most vulnerable among us.
SELF-MADE
The idea of a "self-made" man or woman cuts to the core of this American ethos. Many suggest that this term goes back to someone who has become the embodiment of the self-made man: Benjamin Franklin. In many respects, Franklin established the enduring recipe of successhard work, strong values and education. These three elements still top the list of what Americans believe contribute to success, some 250 years later.
Interestingly, Franklin dismissed things such as luck or relationships as critical to ones rise. Yet both played significant roles in his own.
Years later, Frederick Douglass echoed Franklin's formula. One he too embodied. In 1895, he delivered a powerful lecture called "Self-Made Men." In it, he offered up a definition predicated on work.
"My theory of self-made men is, then, simply this; that they are men of work. Whether or not such men have acquired material, moral or intellectual excellence, honest labor faithfully, steadily and persistently pursued, is the best, if not the only, explanation of their success."
Later he dismissed luck and material assistance as inconsequential. What's most fascinating though is that in the very beginning of his speech, he seemingly contradicted himself.
"Properly speaking, there are in the world no such men as self-made men."
Going on to add later:
"It must in truth be said though it may not accord well with self-conscious individuality and self-conceit, that no possible native force of character, and no depth or wealth of originality, can lift a man into absolute independence of his fellow-men, and no generation of men can be independent of the preceding generation."
So it begs this question of why men like Franklin and Douglass, whose lives and words demonstrated a more nuanced formula of "making it," so passionately promoted the essential quality of hard work almost to the detriment of everything else.
Consider Douglass' own words as it relates to the situation of African Americans:
"Give the Negro fair play and let him alone. If he lives, well. If he dies, equally well. If he cannot stand up, let him fall down."
Sounds a little harsh, right? I guess that depends on how he and we define "fair play."
YOU GOTTA HAVE FAITH
I believe in God. It is a personal belief, not explicitly tied to a specific religion although, spiritually, I would consider myself a Christian. I am humble enough to know that there is something much, much larger than myself at play in this world and that I am too small a piece in it to think I know all the answers.
I once heard a novelist say that there are two stories about the world. In one, there is a god who is the protagonist that gets the action rolling. In the other, the action just starts. She prefers the story with the god. As do I.
Our belief systems impact our actions, whether that is belief in a higher power or in ourselves.
When it comes to our own personal success, I can't profess to even have a theory on God's role. Does He have a preset plan for all of us with each promotion and path set out? Does He have a vested interest in who scores a touchdown, wins an Oscar or gets elected? Seems unlikely to me but if it works for you, then go for it.
What I do know is that the power of belief is strong and vital, perhaps even critical to our own success. Recently, an article written by Eduardo Porter in The New York Times examined the question of mobility through the lens of belief and expectations. In it he discusses the importance of believing that opportunity exists and that the difference in success may come down to whether someone sees a future of economic despair devoid of hope, or one based on a visionary goal
something worth saving themselves.
Our belief systems impact our actions, whether that is belief in a higher power or in ourselves.
So what do you believe about your own potential and from where your success comes?
THE PLACEBO EFFECT
Placebos are often thought of strictly as a fake medicine, a sugar pill or saline injection. But according to Harvard Medical School's Ted Kaptchuk, this is all wrong. Instead "the placebo effect is people getting better without active ingredients." In his work, people see the placebo effect as the result not of any "fake medication" but instead of everything that surrounds the fake treatment. The doctor-patient engagement, the hope and support they receive and feel. All of these "surrounding elements" actually produce a physiological effect where neurotransmitters are released that can in fact change outcomes.
What does this have to do with the American Dream? Maybe everything. Why do some people succeed "without active ingredients?" How do some overcome all odds? This is the beauty of dreams. We live in a culture that supports and pushes forward the American Dream. The steady drumbeat of "you can do it" narratives surrounds the fake treatment of failed support systems and limited opportunities. Is it possible that the idea of the American Dream isn't a sugar pill that cynics say distorts us from wider systemic change, but instead is a mystifying placebo effect that changes outcomes for some which would otherwise defy logic?
This article was written by Bob McKinnon from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Elegant Folding Standing Desk Is So Simple, Even A Kid Could Use It
description: We may have reached Peak Standing Desk, but that doesn't mean that people will stop dreaming up slightly new iterations of them any time soon. And that's a good thing too, when they're as beautifully designed as the OPLFT, a clean-lined mini-desk that sits on top of any regular desk and renders it adjustable.
The OPLFT might be the first standing desk I actually want to buy. Not only does it look good, with its simple scissor-legged design, but it folds flat when not in use, so you can leave it on the desk when you sit.(Your browser doesn't support iframe)But the neatest part is in the lifting action. Grabbing the handles unlocks the mechanism, which combines springs and hydraulics to help even the weakest of office dwellers to easily lift the desk and set it at just the right height. When in place, you can even lean on itthe unit can support an additional 88 pounds, which is essential if you're the kind of person who reads their screen in a lean-forwards, elbows-on-desk position. The OPLFT itself weighs in at 26 pounds, so while it's not really portable, it can easily be schlepped around the office, or stored behind a filing cabinet when not needed.
Switching between sitting and standing is good not only for folks who are starting out with standing desks. The flexibility means you can do what your body tells you it needs. "Normally we change from sitting to standing three to five times a day," OPLFT's Steffen Nielsen says. "Maybe one or two times before lunch and two to three times in the afternoon. It is very individual, but some of us tend to get some back pain as the day moves forward."
The desk looks like it's built to last, which is just as well, because it will cost $500 (right now it's $421 on Kickstarter).
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Should There Be Tax Breaks For Investing In Distressed Communities?
description: Increasingly, America looks like two countries, with some places bounding ahead and others falling behind. The recession exacerbated long-running economic gaps. And now 50 million Americans live in "distressed ZIP codes" hampered by low investment and persistent unemployment.
It's these ZIPs that are the focus of a new bill in Congress called the Investing in Opportunity Act. Backed by Sean Parker, of Napster and Facebook fame, the legislation would offer tax breaks to investors willing to move money out of conventional funds into targeted "opportunity funds." In effect, investors would get a holiday on capital gains in return for investing in real estate, small businesses, and infrastructure projects in distressed communities.
Unusually, the bill has bipartisan support, according to a report in USA Today. Many of the most distressed ZIPs are concentrated in the south, southwest, and the Rust Belt regions.
Parker is chairman of the non-profit Economic Innovation Group, which last year outlined the opportunity fund idea in a report (see our post here). "The idea is to find a channel by which capital that's sitting on the sidelines, or just compounding on financial markets, that could find its way into these disadvantaged places," report co-author Jared Bernstein said at the time.
The report criticized existing federal vehicles for bringing private dollars to distressed areas. At the same time, it said many investors would be willing to cash in conventional investments if they could do good and avoid taxes at the same time.
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Denmark Considers Taxing Meat, Calling It An Ethical Responsibility
description: We tax cigarettes and alcohol, in part to discourage their consumption, so why not tax meat? After all, bacon gives you cancer, cows cause climate change, and eating less meat could save us trillions of dollars. That's why the Danish Council of Ethics recommends taxing beef.
"The Danes' way of life is far from climatically, sustainable, and if we are to live up to the Paris agreement's objective of keeping global temperature rise well below 2C, it is necessary to act quickly," says the council, which reports to the Danish parliament.
Their initial recommendation is to tax beef. Globally, food productions accounts for up to 29% of emissions. Cattle are responsible for a huge 10%. Taxing beef, they say, could reduce greenhouse gas emissions from food by 20% to 35%.
Flickr user due_mele
"A large majority of the Council considers that the Danes are ethically obliged to change dietary habits," says the press release accompanying the new report. A tax on beef, it says, should be levied on consumers. This would discourage consumption by raising costs and "send a clear signal" to the public. Beef is also a good place to start, says the council, because people can easily continue to eat healthily without beef.
Reducing meat production may be essential to meeting climate goals, though it might be a hard sell to the general public. "I don't think it's possible to keep on a course for two degrees global warmingto keep climate change to safe levelswithout looking at meat consumption," Laura Wellesley, a research associate at Chatham House, told Co.Exist last year.
The reduction in consumption is a clear benefit, but the raising of awareness that the Danish Ethics council recommends could be just as important. Most people have no idea that meat production causes climate change, even though it is responsible for almost 15% of all greenhouse gas emissions. Giving up meat could be as effective as switching to a hybrid car in terms of cutting emissions.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The Country's Largest Bike-Share Operator Is Now Making Its Bikes In Detroit
description: If you rent a bike from Citi Bike in New York this week (and look carefully) you might notice something new: some of the bikes are now made in Detroit. The company that manages the bike-share programalong with many of the other major bike-share networks in the countryhas decided to start manufacturing bicycles in the U.S.
In part, that's because bike share is growing quickly, and Motivate, the company that runs the programs, wanted to be able to respond equally quickly with production. As recently as two years ago, bike share was struggling; Motivate, then known as Alta, was on the verge of bankruptcy, and it wasn't clear if fledgling bike-share fleets would all survive. Executives from Equinox and Related took over the company, renamed it, and turned things around.
In New York City, Citi Bike will double in size by 2017. In the San Francisco Bay Area, bike share is growing 10-fold. D.C. is adding 50 new bike-share stations. Chicago's program has grown 60% this year. Smaller cities, such as Columbus, Ohio, are adding bike-share systems. The list goes on.
As cities expand their fleets, Motivate decided to revamp production. "We were looking for tighter quality control," says Jay Walder, the company's new CEO, who previously ran city transit systems in both New York and Hong Kong. "It's a heck of a lot easier to visit a vendor in Detroit than it is to visit a vendor in China. It actually saves us costs in doing it."
Detroit-made bicycles can also be made and delivered more quickly. Motivate is partnering with Detroit Bikescurrently the only large-scale bike manufacturer located in the U.S.which set up a new production line just to handle bike-share bikes.
The factory is building a new version of the bike, designed by custom bike designer Ben Serotta, that attempts to address some of the problems faced by earlier designs. "I think the key component to think about in terms of bike share is the intensity of use that bicycles get," Walder says. A bike might be ridden as much as 15 times in a single day, by different riders, over different street conditions. Serotta spent time talking to the company's head mechanics in each major city to figure out what was breaking most often, and how to make it easier to fix.
"The idea that a bike will never need maintenance is not part of the question, the question is really about reducing the maintenance cycle, and easing the maintenance," says Walder. "Our goal is that if something goes wrong on the bicycle, we want to be able to fix it quickly and easilyoften on the street without bringing it back to the shopand to get it back in use right away."
The bikes are also designed to be more comfortable to ride, and customers seem to prefer them. Motivate started rolling out some the new bikes a year ago in New York (before the switch to the Detroit manufacturer), and customers have been choosing them almost twice as often when they're in a dock next to older Citi Bikes.
As the company expands, they're hoping to also help Detroit Bike expand and create more jobs. Equally important, they say, was expressing faith in local manufacturing. "I love the fact that people will look at the bikes and see this is made in the U.S.," Walder says. "But I also love the fact that this is a better product."
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Adorable Tiny Car Is Actually A Bike
description: After he got tired of biking to work in Sweden's cold, wet winters, engineer Mikael Kjellman decided to redesign his bicycle. He took inspiration from fabric-covered bike trailers made for childrenand decided to make an adult version, which ended up looking like a tiny car.
Like a kid's trailer, Kjellman's design, now called a PodRide, has a lightweight, zippable fabric cover. But it also has headlights, turn signals, a comfortable car-like seat, windshield wipers, and a trunk for storage. Thanks to an electric motor, it can drive about 15 miles an hour.(Your browser doesn't support iframe)It isn't the first design for a velomobile, or bike-car hybrid (this one, from Minnesota, was also inspired by bad winters). But Kjellman, who is now working to make his prototype available to everyone, thinks that the concept may have more success now than others have had in the past.
"I think and hope it's the right time," he says. "There's more and more environmental awareness, so people are really beginning to think about this. Then you have the development of electric bicycles, so you get the electric motor, and that's a key factor to making the kind of practical velomobile. Without an electric engine, they are really too heavy and not too fun to bike at all."
While it's possible to pedal home if the battery dies, or if you want an intense workout, it's designed to be used with help from the motor. Because the speed is limited, it's legal to ride as a bicycle in Sweden.
The upright design also makes it safer to ride next to cars in traffic, and Kjellman thinks it might be more appealing to a wider audience. "There's stranger designs that many velomobiles have," he says. "They are totally focused on getting low wind resistance. They look like a shampoo bottle with wheels, and that's also a problem for peoplethey don't want to ride in that."
An earlier, wider version looked so much like a car that it sometimes scared other cyclists off bike lanes, so the PodRide is designed to look as friendly as possible. "This looks more gentle," Kjellman says. "It's kind of round and non-threatening."
After testing the prototype on his commute to work for a year, Kjellman is raising funds on Indiegogo to manufacture the PodRide for everyone else. He thinks it could help anywhere, like Sweden, where good bike infrastructure exists, but the weather is often so bad that people drive to work anyway.
"I think many people can choose one of these rather than taking a car," he says.
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: These Optical Illusions Make Drivers Slow Down For Crosswalks
description: Zebra crossingsthe striped crosswalks common on roads around the worlddon't necessarily work very well. In one Swedish study, drivers stopped for pedestrians only 5% of the time at the crosswalks, and rarely slowed down.
A city in India is experimenting with another approach: By adding some perspective shading to the stripes, the crosswalk looks a little like a roadblock from a distance.
Artists Saumya Pandya Thakkar and Shakuntala Pandya were asked to paint the crosswalks by a local company that manages the highways in Ahmedabad, India. "They asked us to do something for accident-prone zones near schools," says Thakkar. "A lot of schoolkids were crossing the road, and it was not safe for them because of the high speed of the highway."
The artists had seen a similar optical illusion in photos from China, and decided to attempt it in Ahmedabad, painting four crosswalks in the city in January. Months later, it seems to be working. "They are very happy with it," Thakkar says. "Since then, they have marked that there is no accident there now."
Because of the way the human eye works, the illusion shows up only slightly at a distanceenough to make someone slow downbut appears two-dimensional up close, so drivers don't suddenly brake.
"It's better than normal artwork, but not as perfect as it looks in photographs," she says. "So it's not that dangerous for the drivers, because they can make out that this is just a painting. But the idea is that they pay attention because of the new creations."
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The Best Pilates Moves You Can Do Without a Reformer
description: If youve ever seen a Pilates reformer, then you know why they can be intimidating. With straps, springs, and lots of moving parts, those things look like medieval torture devices. And while the machines definitely benefit your Pilates practice by offering resistance and support, its way easier (and just as effective) to do certain moves on a mat.
One of the most amazing things about Pilates is that it is so effective with just your body weight or small props, so you can do it at home, in a hotel room, at the park, in the car, waiting in lineI literally do it everywhere, says Erika Bloom, certified Pilates teacher and founder of Erika Bloom Pilates Plus.
Here, Bloom demos the best 18 moves you can do without a reformer. These exercises arent just pulled from the classic mat repertoire; theyre adapted for the mat from reformer choreography, so they go above and beyond a typical mat Pilates class or video.
Keep in mind that Pilates is supposed to be done very slowly and deliberately, so dont rush through these moves. Its all about control, not muscle exhaustion or speed of reps, so take your time and connect to your breath. One of the most important Pilates principles is the idea that the breath is coordinated with core engagement, Bloom says. Breathe into the diaphragm, then on the exhale, wrap the lower abs around the body like there's a magnet between the spine and belly button. Think of it like cinching up a corset around your midsectionyou know, like that scene in Titanic but less painful.
Pilates is designed to have a warm-up built in, so simply grab a mat to get started. To mimic some parts of a reformer and make some moves more challenging, you can opt for a light resistance band and a set of 1- to 3-pound weights. (No weights? Two water bottles work well too!)
Core1. Toe Tap
Lie faceup with a neutral spine (there should be a small gap between your lower back and the mat), knees bent, feet flat, heels in line with sit bones. On an exhale, float legs one at a time up to chair position (with knees bent 90 degrees). On each exhale, alternate tapping one toe to mat, going as low as you can while maintaining a neutral spine. Inhale to float the leg back to chair position. Do 10 reps on each leg.2. Press and Point (a.k.a. Coordination)
Start faceup with arms by side, knees bent, feet on mat. Lift legs to a floating chair position one at a time. Bend elbows 90 degrees. On an exhale, curl head, neck and shoulders up from your lower ribs while simultaneously stretching your arms and legs long. Inhale as you press legs open slightly wider than hip width then draw them back closed. Exhale to bring the legs back to starting position while keeping the body curled up. Inhale to release head, neck, and shoulders back down. Repeat 8 times.
Make it easier: Keep legs bent and just move the upper body.
3. Side Plank Twist
Lie on your side, right forearm against the mat under right shoulder, left arm reaching up to the ceiling. Float your hip and waist up to a side plank. Focus on pressing up from hip and side waist instead of shoulder. Thread left arm through the space below torso to twist. Return to starting position. Lower hips to mat. Do 8 reps on each side.4. Knees Off
Start on all fours, toes tucked under, spine reaching long, and shoulder blades wide across back. Exhale, deepen your abdominals to spine, and float your knees off the mat a few inches. Make sure to keep spine neutral as you lift. Hold the knee lift for two breaths, deepening the belly on each exhale, then lower knees back to mat. Do 5 reps.
Legs5. Inner Thigh Circle
Lie on right side with right leg extended out and left knee bent, resting on mat. Lift right leg up 6 inches above mat. Engage inner thigh to draw small circles with right leg as though youre tracing the outside of a tea saucer with your big toe. Complete 10 circles in each direction then repeat with opposite leg.
Make it harder: Add ankle weights up to 2 pounds.
6. Side Kick Front and Back
Lie on side. Bring just the legs forward 12 inches and place your top hand on mat for support. Inhale to prepare and exhale to lift top leg up a few inches. Inhale twice while you pulse top leg forward, keeping pelvis stable. Exhale once and glide leg behind the line of the body. Repeat 12 times on each leg.
Make it harder: Add ankle weights up to 2 pounds.7. Bridge With Leg Lift
Start faceup with knees bent, feet flat and hip-width apart. Press into feet to lift hips up, maintaining a neutral spine. Extend right leg up. Lower it down, making sure to keep pelvis lifted and neutral, then raise leg back up. Do 8 reps on each leg.8. Leg Lift (a.k.a. Battement)
Lie on side with both legs extended straight, toes pointed. Turn top leg out so top of foot faces ceiling and lift while maintaining the rotation. Keep pelvis stable by drawing in belly. Do 12 reps on each side.
Back
9. Flight
Lie facedown with arms by hips. Reach arms back as you float up into a small upper back arch while maintaining a long, supported lower back. You should feel like top of your head is reaching forward as fingers reach back. Lower down. Do 8 reps.10. T-Press
Lie facedown with arms reached out in-line with shoulders like a T. Float arms up about two inches as you reach your head, neck, and shoulders forward and up into a very small arch. Reach arms back to hips as you slightly increase the arch. Lower torso and arms down and return to starting position. Repeat 8 times.
Make it harder: Add 1-pound weights (max).
11. Swimming
Lie facedown with arms and legs extended straight. Take flight by lifting arms, head, shoulders, and legs up. Gaze down to mat to protect neck. Alternate tiny arm and leg lifts as if you were swimming, but only take your arms as high as you can keep your collar bones wide, so your traps (the triangular muscles on either side of your spine behind your neck) stay soft. Inhale for 4 counts and exhale for 4 counts. Repeat for 5 breath cycles.
Hips and Butt
12. Clam
Lie on your side with knees bent and stacked. Keeping feet together, spiral the top leg out to lift the knee up as high as you can while keeping pelvis stable. Lower it back down (like a clamshell), opening then closing. Repeat 15 times.
Make it harder: Add a resistance band around your thighs.13. Back Lift With Band
Lie on your right side with knees bent and a resistance band tied around thighs. Press the sole of the left foot into the band to lengthen the leg back and down at a diagonal until the knee is straight. Stretch it long as you lift leg up above hip height. Lower back down and then bend it back in to complete one rep. Do 12 reps on each leg.
14. Single Leg Bridge Press
Lie faceup with knees bent, feet slightly apart, arms by side. Exhale and roll hips, back, and ribs off mat by pressing firmly into both feet to a bridge position. Lift left foot off the mat, keeping knee bent, until knee is hovering over the hip in a chair position, shin parallel to floor. Pulse your hips up by pressing into your right foot and engaging the back of your right leg and glute. Keep hips level and make the pulses as small and focused as possible to keep the work in the leg and butt and out of the back. Do 12 pulses. Switch legs then repeat for a total of 2 sets of 12 on each leg.
Arms15. Posture Perfecter (a.k.a. Chest Expansion)
Stand with a light weight in each hand. (To make it easier, perform without weights.) Bend knees to hinge forward at the hips with a long, neutral spine. Lengthen arms down to floor with palms facing each other. Reach weights back and up until palms come to hips. Feel the collar bones widen and draw shoulder blades down your back. Lengthen arms back down to starting position. Do 15 reps.16. Arm Circle
Stand with a light weight in each hand, arms at sides. (Again, ditch the weights to make it easier.) Lift arms forward in-line with shoulders. Reach both arms out to a T, only so wide that they stay in your peripheral vision. Bring arms back down to sides to complete the circle. Engage your abs to keep spine lifted and shoulders draping down your back. Do 8 circles.17. Skim the Surface (a.k.a. Rotator Cuff)
Stand with resistance band held between hands, palms facing up. Bring elbows to your sides bent at 90 degrees. Keep upper arms against your body but allow them to spiral outlike theyre rotatingas you pull hands apart. Only go as wide as you can while keeping shoulder blades stable. Then resist back in to starting position. Do 12 reps.
Full Body18. Pilates Push-Up
Lower chin toward chest and begin rolling slowly down toward floor one vertebrae at a time. Soften knees, bring palms to floor, then walk hands out to plank position. Feel long in your spine and keep your core tight. Now bend elbows toward sides for a small triceps push-up (dont lower all the way down to mat). Push back to plank. Reach sit bones back and up and begin to walk hands back until you come to hang over legs. Draw in belly to roll slowly back up to stand. Repeat 8 times.
Make it easier: Drop to your knees instead of plank.
The 15-Minute Do-Anywhere Pilates Sequence
Ready to put it into action? Bloom created this beginner sequence you can do anywhere, anytime to work your whole body.Special thanks to Erika Bloom, Pilates teacher and founder of Erika Bloom Pilates Plus, who designed and modeled these moves for us. Bloom wears her own tank top by Mara Hoffman. Find more from Bloom on Instagram and Twitter.
This article was written by molly ritterbeck from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Feeling Sh*tty About Life? Here's an Important Reminder
description: I want you to know that nothing is wrong with you. I know this sounds clich and trite and like I'm patting the top of your head while telling you all the things you want to hear. No, that's not where I'm coming from. I need you to know and I need myself to know that there is nothing wrong with you/me. We're f*cking fine. Do you hear me? We're fine.
I want you to know that you can try to be better, you can work hard, you can do all the things you think you need to do, but none of that will do anything to prove to you that you are worth your space in this world. The only person that can decide that is you. You.
You decide how much space you get to take up. You decide how much your voice is worth. You can work yourself ragged and accrue everything you ever thought you needed, but if you don't believe who you are underneath the glitz, nothing will matter. A fevered mind has a funny way of turning gold into dust.
I want you to know there's nothing to prove, that even if you do all the things that you or someone else told you that you couldn't do, there will be no glory in it. There is no glory in living a life in search of undoing a feeling. You have a core belief that you are not worthy, that you are not lovable, and that you are not good enough? There is no manner of things you can achieve, people you can impress, or people who will love you in order to convince you of a thing you can't believe in yourself. You can't turn a sour belief sweet just by outrunning it forever.
I want you to know that you can't outrun your life, your emotions, and those little beliefs that feel tiny enough to overlook but fester over time. Inconsequential negative beliefs have a way of turning into hugely damaging beliefs. Believe me, I've lived in search of the magic elixir that will turn my emotions into something else, something better, and my life into something shinier. I've searched everywhere, but the only real magic elixir is reckoning with yourself, taking the responsibility, demanding that the only person who can save you is you. It's you, babe. It's you.
You're the savior. You're the one you've been looking for.I want you to know that you will never be enough if all you're looking to be is enough. You need to forget about enough and look beyond it to something else entirely, something that can be measured. "Enoughness" can't be measured. You are only as enough as you are better than someone else, and that's a slippery slope. Not being enough needs participation from othersbecause it's always comparison. That's always where it begins and endsthis incessant need to weigh the value of your life against another person's. Are you more than another? Less than another? You don't really want to be adequate or good enough. No. What you're searching for is to be special, to be better than others. And that's a losing game, even if you think you've won.
I want you to know that if you need to feel loved, please look around at your life and see the magic everywhere. You may not have a thousand friends or a perfect family, but you have your people and they matter, even if the number of those you can count on is in the single digits. Don't throw that away looking for more. I know it seems like admiration, fame, social validation make you feel the love you may not feel for yourself, but it's so fleeting. It's dangerous to stake anything on.
Attention is not love. Double taps are not reminders of your adequacy. Favorites, likes, and followers are not an indictment of your value, no matter how big or small the number reaches or falls. If you've found yourself entirely too consumed with the digital trail of admirers you do or don't have, remind yourself that you are valuable, as you are, without anything or anyone paying attention. Your value exists without condition.
I want you to know that strength is not what you think it is or what the world has told you it is. Strength is not your loud voice or your angry rally cries. Strength is in keeping a positive heart in a negative world, a sensitive soul in a cruel world that often feels beyond the realm of soulless. There is a strength in not letting this world swallow you and spit you out as someone who thinks preaching their opinion off the highest mountain is what brave people do.
Courage is listening when your knuckles are going white from clenching down on the arms of your chair. Courage is respect and not letting any number of heartbreaks sour you from believing that there is good, there is love, there is something in this mad world to have hope for.
I want you to know that within you lies something integral to this world. You're a puzzle piece that fits into the grander framework of humanity. Today is a whole new day, and you can turn it all around in one quick decision to do something, anything, different than how you've done it before. Change comes slowly and then all at once. You will think you're going down the long tunnel of darkness until it happens, until you're renewed. Trust that it's coming. Trust that something bigger is forming. Trust your tender heart. Trust your wild ideas. Take the chance. Say no when it doesn't light you up. Follow whatever within you tells you that you're doing something that makes you come alive.
I want you to know that the only waste here would be for you to sleep through your life. The only thing you could do wrong is to opt out of who you are, to forgo whatever fights come out of you. Because something does fight within you to be said, to be doneno matter how small or seemingly inconsequential you think it is. You can change a heart in the most ordinary gesture. Don't let this world harden you until all you see is what's going wrong, what's bad. Because the thing no one tells you is there is as much good as there is bad. As much darkness as there is light. It simply depends on where you focus your eyes.
This piece was originally published on Medium and was republished with the author's permission. Jamie Varon is a writer based in Los Angeles. The views expressed herein are hers. Follow her on Instagram, Twitter, and Facebook.
This article was written by Jamie Varon from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The Democrats' Favorite, Nobel-Winning Economist On How To Reduce Income Inequality
description: The message of Joseph Stiglitz's bookThe Great Divide: Unequal Societies and What We Can Do About Them (out now in paperback)is positive, in a way. He shows how growing income and wealth inequality is the function of choices we make, not ineluctable forcesglobalization, technology, capitalismthat we can't control. Although we don't have policies in place to create more equality, we could design them if we wanted. After all, other countries are buffeted by exactly the same forces (that's why it's called globalization), yet, they don't have anything like our gaps between rich and poor.
Stiglitz is a professor at Columbia, a Nobel laureate in economics, and respected by both Democratic candidates. Senator Sanders has spoken of Stiglitz as an influence. Clinton calls Stiglitz an "adviser" (someone she "talks to"). Stiglitz is in the upper ranks of progressive economists, and he's more in demand this election year now that issues like equality are on the agenda.
The book, which collects the writing Stiglitz has done on inequality since the financial crisis, gives dozens of reasons why the 1% is gaining at the expense of others. The Bush-era tax cuts. Rampant tax evasion by corporations. A regressive tax system whereby people earning income from capital gains and dividends often pay less than wage earners. A lack of economic regulation, such that CEOs effectively set their own rates of pay, and how market power is increasingly concentrated in many industries. And so on.
Flickr user Abhisit Vejjajiva
Stiglitz does, though, see two reasons for optimism about inequality. The first is the national movement to raise the minimum wage to at least $15 an hour. The second is that inequality is much higher up the political agenda than it used to be. "A positive note is that this has entered into to the political discourse," he says.
Last year, Stiglitz produced a report containing ideas that could be part of Hillary's economic platform (according to the New York Times anyway). The report for the Roosevelt Institute proposed changing capital gains tax rules to discourage short-termism in the markets, a crackdown on corporate tax avoidance, a more progressive income tax scale, and financial transaction taxes.
Getting these tax changes passed will be difficult. But Stiglitz is buoyed that people are recognizing income inequality as an economic issue, as well as a moral one. "It's really an idea that has moved into the mainstream," he says. "When you have high levels of inequality, it means those at the bottom-end are not getting the skills they need to realize their potential. [People are realizing] that we're wasting our most valuable resource: our human resource."
In response to those who say that our economy, which is producing billion-dollar companies seemingly at will, Stiglitz explains "the innovation enigma." This is the phenomenon whereby an economy can be innovative, but still not create prosperity for large numbers of people:
"Around the world, there is enormous enthusiasm for the type of technological innovation symbolized by Silicon Valley," he writes. "In this view, America's ingenuity represents its true comparative advantage, which others strive to imitate. But there is a puzzle: It is difficult to detect the benefits of this innovation in GDP statistics."
This could be because GDP is not a good measure of prosperity, failing to capture the benefits we get from free services like Google or Facebook. But it could also be that "the profitability of an innovation may not be a good measure of its net contribution to our standard of living." The innovation of Silicon Valley, or Wall Street for that matter, benefits the people who make it, but not the wider population:
In our winner-takes-all economy, an innovator who develops a better Web site for online dog-food purchases and deliveries may attract everyone around the world who uses the Internet to order dog food, making enormous profits in the process. But ..[the] Web site's net contribution to economic growth may in fact be relatively small.
But, unlike other economists, Stiglitz isn't fatalistic about technology leading necessarily to dog food sites and narrow prosperity gains. We could, in fact, incentivize innovators to work on more important things.
"We've been taking our scarce research talent and thinking 'how can we create more unemployment'," he says in an interview. "We've said 'how do we reduce our need for unskilled labor?' in an era when we already have high unskilled labor employment."
Silicon Valley in other words is preoccupied with labor-saving technologywhether it's robots or Pets.comat a time when it should be preoccupied with challenges like climate change.
"I think we should be using those scarce resources to preserve the planet. But we don't give [innovators] any incentives," he says. "We don't have a price on carbon, so why should they try to save carbon emissions? And interest rates are at zero when the cost of labor is higher than zero. That gives firms incentives to focus on labor, and not on capital, or the environment. It's a funny kind of market economy."
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: How to Know If a New Diet Will Actually Work for You
description: I dont know what to believe.
If youve ever read a fitness magazine or searched for any health-related information on the Internet, this is probably how you feel. Or maybe its more like, WTF! Why does every piece of information contradict the other?
First carbs are bad, and then theyre considered kinda rad (for athletes, at least). We say fats aren't part of the plan, but what about Paleo, where bacon is the jam? I hear that intermittent fasting can eliminate fat or is that only true if youre a lab rat? Its enough to make you want to throw your computer across the roomand not just because of the terrible rhymes.This stuff (nutrition and fitness) is a businessone of misinformation, overreactions, and enough double-talk to make you think Paleo and Atkins are running against Mediterranean and Low-Sugar for the office of diet supremacy. Like any election, all candidates have their flaws, but thats a major reason why Im writing this column, Naked Truth: less confusion, more answers, and a place for you to turn when youre sick of reading everything and just want to know what to believe.
Im not here to break the news. Im here to make sense of it all so you can live a healthy life without all the added stress and second-guessing. And while you can safely assume any plan that includes the words cookie or miracle is full of sh!t, trying to tackle every new diet trend would be an impossible task. Instead of naming names, here are three tips to help you figure out what actually works and what might work best for you.
1. Avoid any plan that points out one enemy.
So many new trends in the health and fitness world use smart marketing techniques to both scare you and promise quick results. Neither is usually valid, which is why its important to read this next part very carefully: Weight loss is a complex topic. Its about calories, food quality, hormones, health history, genetics, exercise, body type, food sensitivity, age, and even your family history.
Does that mean you need to become a nutrition expert before trying any new eating plan? Hell no. But it does mean that if any diet suggests changing one element is the key to success, you should run. Fast.
It is a gross overstatement to say that avoiding any one of the following items is all it takes: carbs, fat, wheat, dairy, gluten, sugar, late-night eating, or processed and/or packaged foods. Can adjusting your diet around these things lead to weight loss? Of course. But its not the long-term solution. Why? Because it relies on unnecessary restriction of foods you might enjoy, which limits the likelihood that youll stick with it.
86 percent of people who thought they were gluten intolerant were not.
Yes, some people might actually need to avoid certain foods or ingredients due to food allergies (which is an entirely different, super-interesting topic), but the truth is most people are overreacting and cutting foods from their diet because theyve been tricked into believing these bad foods are a health problem. Theyre not.
For the most part, odds are you dont have a food allergyno matter how much the latest book might try to convince you otherwise. Case in point: Research found that 86 percent of people who thought they were gluten intolerant were not. And scientists estimate that only one to two percent of people in the world actually suffer from gluten intolerance. If youre truly allergic to a food, then youll experience a reaction in your body when you eat it, similar to how pollen crushes my sinuses every summer.
If youre trying to understand nutrition, its best to consider the words of Mike Israetel, Ph.D., professor of exercise science at Temple University:
Ultimately, successfully countering weight gain and obesity is a combination of many nutrition and behavioral principles that keep the fundamentals (like calorie balance) in mind. Catchphrase demonization of a single nutrient as a magic-bullet cure is unlikely to ever be the solution, andin factmore likely to create problems and confusion about how to fight obesity.
2. Think of dieting like dating (hear me out).
Looking at what works for your friend, sister, coworker, or favorite Instagram star is a bad idea. And yet, thats often how a lot of people get inspired to start a new diet. Instead, think of dieting like dating.
You wouldnt choose to be in a relationship with someone who you despise from day one, so why would you do that with the foods you eat. Every. Single. Day. Anything that sounds like it might make your life miserable is going to be a problem. Your body might survive just fine, but your mind wont. You will quit the plan, you will learn to hate healthy eating, and youll probably end up more frustrated and confused than when you started.
After working with hundreds of clients over the past 10 years, here are a few things Ive seen:
Bad Relationship No. 1
Molly wants to try a low-carb diet, but she loves pasta. Shell be OK for four to six weeks, snap, pay rent at her favorite Italian spot for the next month, and then think dieting cant work.Bad Relationship No. 2
Paul loves dessert. He tries a clean eating plan of mainly chicken and broccoli. It satisfies him for about two weeks, and then he becomes grumpy and hates his life.Bad Relationship No. 3
Rebecca loves breakfast. Its her favorite meal of the day. But shes heard that intermittent fasting works really well and that she should only eat during an eight-hour window that starts at 12 p.m. every day. This relationship does not go well.The problems repeat over and over (and over) again. Choosing a diet because it sounds good or because it worked for your BFF and not prioritizing your personality, preferences, and lifestyle sets you up to fail.
Do what works for your body" is simple advice, but it works incredibly well. And it makes perfect sense. You have a different body than your friends or siblings, so why wouldnt you want to make slight, personalized adjustments that seem to fit?
If you want to live a healthy, low-stress life, you need to honestly consider whether a plan is a good fit for you.
3. Focus on the big picture.
The most important parts of any healthy eating planwhether low-carb, low-sugar, or anything in betweenare consistency and sustainability. (Ive written about it many times.) You must see the bigger picture when it comes to nutrition and your health. Just as you dont transform your body by doing one exercise repeatedly for 30 days, you wont change your body permanently by committing to something for such a short period of time.
Eating is social, fun, and should bring happiness. You should feel in control and know that your healthy choices are making a difference and helping in the ways you wantwithout preventing you from living your normal life.
Choosing your diet is like investing in your career. If you want to rise to the top, you have to play the long game. Its not sexy. Its not an exciting sell. But at the end of the day, when done right, its always more rewarding.
Adam Bornstein is a New York Times best-selling author and the founder of Born Fitness, a company on a mission to cut through the noise and share what you need to know to live a healthy, happy life. He extends that mission even further as Greatests Naked Truth columnist. Learn more on his profile page or follow BornFitness on Facebook.
This article was written by Adam Bornstein from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Indigenous Stories Are Filling Gaps in Climate Data
description: By Sebastien Malo, Thompson Reuters Foundation
Canadian scientists have collected stories from more than 90,000 people whose traditional ways of life rely on nature, in an effort to capture signs of climate change where weather stations are absent.
Their findings, published in the journal Nature Climate Change, fill a knowledge gap in climate change science, which is dominated by data and computer models, said the six researchers from Simon Fraser University.Indigenous leaders from all over the world pray as they sail on the Seine during a gathering demanding true climate solutions in Paris during the COP21 climate change conference.
Credit: REUTERS/Gonzolo Fuentes
Western climate data tends to be absent from places like Central Africa, Central America and the Himalayas, Dana Lepofsky, co-author of the paper, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. "But we have some people data."
In all, the researchers gathered observations covering 137 countries that were contained in more than 1,000 published studies.
Their approach to studying climate change reflects an emerging trend among Western researchers to tap into climate knowledge recorded by people who have subsisted off the land and oceans, often for lifetimes or generations, noted Lepofsky.
"You can't look at indigenous people, who are so in tune with their specific places, without hearing about changes in the environment today," said Lepofsky.
Among a trove of observations
whose origins ranged from Crow tribe hunters in Montana to farmers in Iran
the researchers found some 70 percent of those interviewed had witnessed changes in seasons, rainfall patterns and temperature.
In those places, farmers and others with close ties to the land and sea witnessed climatic changes because these had disrupted ancestral farming, food-gathering or cultural practices.
Sweden's Sami herders, for instance, said they were abandoning traditional ways due to changes in ice formation and weather.
In Bangladesh, an upsurge of punishing windy and stormy days was forcing some fishermen to moor their boats rather than set out to sea, the study said.
And in Canada's remote Nunavut, an Inuit community suspected the grizzly habitat was changing when they noticed the bears roaming in areas where they had not been seen before.
The observations, mostly collected from indigenous people, generally align with data and models developed to predict changes in the climate.
But the researchers hope they add layers of nuance that could guide policy on how to adjust to climate shifts going forward.
"It's not just observations of climate change but people's adaptations (to climate change) too that were compiled," Lepofsky said. "Ways that people are diversifying crops
all kinds of things people are doing that are working."
Reporting by Sebastien Malo, Editing by Megan Rowling
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: How to Cook Salmon in the Oven
description: Oven-baked salmon soundsand tastesfancy, but it's so easy to make you won't believe it. Plus, making your main dish in the oven frees you up to do something else while the meal cooks. (Netflix? Chill? Or make a delicious veggie side dish?)
Cleanup is minimal, as long as you remember to line the baking dish or sheet pan with tin foil. (Don't skip that steptrust us). This method also works well when you're cooking two or more filletssimply increase the cooking time.
Grab a sheet pan or baking dish, nonstick cooking spray, olive oil, salmon fillet, salt, and pepper and you're good to go.
Directions:1. Preheat oven.
Preheat oven to 400 degrees. Line a sheet tray or baking dish with foil and spray foil with nonstick cooking spray. Pat salmon dry with a paper towel.2. Season.
Drizzle salmon with about 1 tablespoon olive oil. Sprinkle with salt and pepper to taste (or any seasonings you prefer).3. Bake for 10 to 12 minutes.
Bake in the top half of the oven for 10 to 12 minutes. Start checking for doneness around the 10-minute mark, but a thicker fillet will need more time. Fish is ready when the flesh flakes easily with a fork.4. Serve.
Squeeze a wedge of lemon over the top right before you serve.
This article was written by Locke Hughes from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Fart With Confidence With Shreddies, the Flatulence-Filtering Underwear
description: Nope, sorry guys. Cant go out tonight. Ive got a serious case of the farts.
If youve ever had to stay in, curled up on the couch in complete solitude because your bowels were no friend of yours (or anyone elses for that matter), then you very well understand the effect of public flatulence on self esteem, confidence, and overall self worth. (Research has actually found that people are more likely to make negative judgments about a situation while theyre in the presence of a fart-like odor.)
Thankfully, theres an undergarment for that! UK-based company Shreddies created mens and womens underwear that contain zorflex, a material that allegedly filters super offensive odors
ya know, like the ones emitted from your tush. The company claims the super skivvies can neutralize odors up to 200 times the stink strength of the average fart.Each time the magical undies run through the wash, the carbon material is reactivated (according to the underpants makers). The underwear comes in briefs and high-waisted briefs for women (starting at $28) and boxer briefs for men (starting at $35). The panties of the future arent exactly new. In 2008, Shreddies whipped up their undies hoping to alleviate the social hindrance that is chronic flatulence. Now theyre gaining buzz in the States. The Shreddies motto is fart with confidence. Were not kidding.
Breaking the effects of breaking windwhat a novel idea. We havent tried Shreddies for ourselves, but research does point to active charcoal (like whats in Shreddies) as a remedy for flatulence.1 But before you get your panties in a bunch, know that while Shreddies do (supposedly) mask scent, they do not in fact mute bodily noises (total bummer).
Tame Those Toots
If youd rather not drop upwards of 30 bucks on a pair of undies (and let's hope youd have the decency to buy more than one pair), here are some foolproof tips to reduce flatulence.
Choose foods with carbs that are easy to digest, including potatoes, rice, bananas, and yogurt.
Eat smaller meals more frequently during the day (versus three or fewer large meals) to help digestion. (This may produce less gas, too.)
Chew food slowly. This will help reduce the amount of air swallowed (and hey, its got to get out somehow).
Avoid chewing gum and sipping on soda. It can also increase the amount of air swallowed.
Get a move on. Exercise helps improve the way our digestive systems function.
Originally published October 2013. Updated May 2016.
Works Cited
Flatulence on airplanes: just let it go. Pommergaard HC, Burcharth J, Fischer A. The New Zealand medical journal, 2013, Feb.;126(1369):1175-8716.
This article was written by Nicole McDermott from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: How to Cook Salmon on the Stove
description: Pan-seared salmon is the ideal healthy weeknight meal. It takes hardly any time (10 minutes max), and in just five simple steps, you end up with a perfectly seasoned fillet with deliciously crispy skin.
The only slight downsides: It can get a little messy if the oil splatters, and your kitchen may start to smell like the ocean (which could be a good or a bad thing, depending on the person.) Still, it's helpful to have an open window nearby and/or a fan above the stove.
What you'll need: a medium-size skillet, olive oil, butter, a salmon fillet (about six ounces should work for one person), salt, and pepper. Lemon slices are a nice touch for garnish but not needed.
Directions:1. Heat oil and butter in skillet.
Add about 1 teaspoon olive oil to a heavy skillet over medium-high heat so theres a thin coating of oil over the entire surface. Heat for 3 minutes. Add about 1 tablespoon of butter and let it melt.2. Season.
Place fillet in skillet skin-side down. (If you're using a skinless fillet, it doesn't matter.) Season top side with salt and pepperor any other spices that appeal. (Find some tasty seasoning combos here.)3. Let cook, then flip.
Cook fillet for 3 to 5 minutes. (Timing depends on how thick the fillet is.) When fillet turns a light pink (almost white) color about 1/2 of the way through, use a spatula or tongs to flip it over. If it sticks to the pan, let it cook for one more minute.4. Continue to cook.
Cook for 3 to 5 more minutes on the other side. Again, timing depends on how thick the fillet is and how well done you like your fish. You'll know it's ready when the flesh flakes easily with a fork.5. Serve.
Besides topping with lemon, we love to plate salmon with some cooked quinoa or brown rice, plus steamed broccoli or sauteed spinach. Check out these outstanding veggie side dishes for more inspiration.
This article was written by Locke Hughes from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Warming to Bring Epidemic of Heat-Related Injuries
description: By Arthur Nelsen, The Guardian
Workers in fields and factories face an epidemic of heat-related injuries that will devastate their health, income and productivity as climate change takes hold, a majorU.N. reporthas warned.
Productivity losses alone could rise above $2 trillion by 2030, as outdoor employees in many regions slow their pace, take longer breaks and shift their work to cooler dusk and dawn hours.
The effects of heat stress brought on by a warming world are already evident among the 4 billion people who live in the tropics and subtropics, says the report, Climate Change and Labour, which was jointly produced by the International Labor Organization (ILO), UN Development Programme and the WorldHealthOrganization.A man takes a break to beat the heat in India.
Credit: Soham Banerjee/flickr
In west Africa, the number of very hot days each year has already doubled since the 1960s, with an increase of around 10 sultry days each decade.
Matthew McKinnon, the manager of the U.N.s climate vulnerable support forum, told the Guardian that increased incidence of heat stroke was only the most dramatic evidence of the problem he encountered on a recent trip to Ghana.
He said: Teachers were complaining that it was too hot to teach children in schoolrooms which had no air conditioning. The children were also exhausted. We had truck drivers who were complaining that the rates of tyre bursts was increasing a lot because of the heat. Farmers too were worried that they had to spend too much time in open fields in the hot season.
Around 2 percent of daylight hours are predicted to be shaved off the working day in west Africa, south Asia, and 10 regions in Asia, Africa and Latin America by 2030, potentially creating an epidemic of heat-related injuries.
If temperatures climb beyond 2C, it would really be a problem on that scale in the tropics and sub-tropics, McKinnon said.
More than half of the workforce in many middle- and low-income countries is already exposed to heat hazards, which also affect workers in factories that have inadequate air conditioning and ventilation systems. This is in turn can make normal work impossible.
When heat is at a maximum threshold and it continues to get hotter, there are limitations to what people can do, McKinnon said.
If ambient temperatures rise above the bodys median 98.6F(37C), a person can only continue working by expelling heat through sweat evaporation. Where high humidity or clothing requirements prevent this, the only way to avoid dehydration and ultimately, clinical heatstroke is through reducing the work rate, resting and drinking as much water as possible.Citizens of Lahore, Pakistan cool off in a city canal during a heat wave.
Credit:Usman Ahmed/flickr
Heat-related health breakdowns would have a gender dimension, hitting men who traditionally slog through heavy-lifting jobs, and pregnant women who are forced to work for economic reasons, especially in rural areas.
Even if the Paris agreement succeeds in limiting global warming to 2C, 10-15 percent of daylight work hours will be lost in vulnerable countries by the centurys end, says the study which bases its estimates on theU.N. climate science panels latest findings.
Limiting warming to 1.5C as enshrined in the UNFCCC Paris agreement would still result in a substantial escalation of risks but increases the viability of adaptation measures and contains the worst impacts in health, economic and social terms, the report says.
The paper calls for low-cost measures such as guaranteed access to drinking water in workplaces, frequent rest breaks, management of output targets, and a protection of employees incomes and conditions.
However, more labour disputes to protect vulnerable workers - and applythe ILOs guidelines on climate change are all but inevitable as the century advances, according to the ILO.
Moustapha Kamal Gueye, an ILO spokesman, said Climate change is going to be a major issue for unions in the years ahead. It is a significant problem already and workers and unions are far ahead of governments and employers when it comes to putting on pressure about the urgency to take action.
Reprinted from The Guardian with permission.
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Why Swearing Really Can Kill Pain
description: While you might eventually grab an ice pack or see a doctor when you're in pain, dropping a few f-bombs is your best initial defense. According to this video by AsapTHOUGHT, swearing while in pain allows us to tolerate more discomfort for a longer period of time, a phenomenon known as lalochezia. Swearing is linked to emotion, and since many swear words come from taboo topics (sex, poop), there's something exciting about saying them. When we yell out these emotionally charged words, it sparks a biological response in our bodies to help us tolerate pain. But you can build up a tolerance to lalocheziathe more you swear the less it helps. So be sure to use your sh!ts and fu*cks sparingly.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Satellite Shows U.S. Has the Most Gas Flares in the World
description: Drive through many oil and gas fields in the U.S. and one thing stands out above the pumpjacks and storage tanks, especially at night steadily flickering flames.
Those flames are known as gas flares, which burn off excess natural gas from crude oil and natural gas wells across the globe. Scientists at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration are using satellites to learn more about those flares how much gas is being burned, how many flares exist and where they are.
A NOAA map showing flaring sites in the Marcellus shale region of northeast Pennsylvania.
Credit: NOAA
The imagery is stunning, showing large swaths of rural areas lit up like small cities at night.
The most surprising thing I found was the large number of flaring sites there are in the USA, said Chris Elvidge, lead scientist on the project at NOAAs Earth Observation Group in Boulder, Colo. The flares in the USA are small and highly intermittent, but gosh, there are a lot of them, far exceeding any other country.
{related}
Energy companies flare about a third of the gas they produce, and much of the gas being burned off is methane, a greenhouse gas about 86 times as potent as carbon dioxide over a 20 year period. Methanes potency declines in the long run, but contributes more to global warming than carbon dioxide over a span of decades.
Energy companies voluntarily report how much gas they flare. But a lack of independent data has resulted in uncertainty about how much gas is actually being lost.
NASA and NOAA are trying to fill in the data gap with satellite imagery from an instrument called the Visible Infrared Imaging Radiometer Suite.A gas flare in an oil field in North Dakota.
Credit: Tim Evanson/flickr
The system identifies gas flaring sites and estimates flared gas volumes and carbon dioxide emissions in annual increments, Elvidge said.
So far, the scientists have found 6,292 flares in the U.S., burning off 10.65 billion cubic meters of natural gas. They found only 1,738 flares in Russia, but those burned much more gas nearly 20 billion cubic meters.
To reduce greenhouse gas emissions from flaring, the World Bank has launcheda programthat aims to stop routine flaring globally by 2030. Elvidge said NOAAs satellite-based verification system supports the Worlds Banks initiative and helps keep track of the carbon dioxide emissions in each country that committed to reducing them as part of the Paris Climate Agreement.
NOAAs interactiveflare mapshows how concentrated hydraulically-fractured oil and gas wells are in some places, especially in the Marcellus shale gas fields of Pennsylvania. In that region, the flares spread to the New York state line, where fracking has beenbanned.
Another area of concentrated flaring is in the Bakken shale oil fields in North Dakota. Flaring occurs there and in many other regions because there are few pipelines or infrastructure there that can bring that natural gas to market.
Flaring in North Dakota produced 4.5 million metric tons of CO2 in 2012 alone, roughly the equivalent of adding1 million new carsto U.S. highways, according to the non-profit sustainability group Ceres.
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The #WhatYouDontSee Hashtag Is Generating Real Talk About Depression
description: A major reason so much stigma surrounds mental health is that you can't "see" depression, anxiety, or any other mental illnesses the way you can "see" when someone has a cast on their arm. Although we still have a long way to go, social media has proved to be an awesome platform for people to speak out against this stigma and talk about what it's really like to have a mental illness. That's why Blurt, a depression awareness organization, took to Twitter and asked people to share their own experiences with depression using #WhatYouDontSee.
Check out some of the powerful responses below:
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The Best Way to Whiten Your Teeth
description: If you're like most of us here at Greatist, braces and retainers still plague your middle school memories. The uncomfortable metal contraptions were the first step in a lifelong pursuit of the perfect smile, followed by making those pearly whites, well, white.
Not all oral-care options are created equal though. This video from Reactions explains how teeth-whitening actually works. Our teeth are naturally white, but over time they become stained with food remnants and other foreign particles. Most whitening products use hydrogen peroxide to remove color from these pigments, the same way we bleach stains out of clothes. Other products will give the teeth a blue tint, temporarily counteracting their usual yellow appearance. Theyre all safe, but only some whitening products actually work.
Our takeaways: Mouthwash doesnt work well, while whitening toothpaste is only a temporary fix. Your best bet for long-lasting white teeth is brushing and flossing regularly, as well as whitening strips or a trip to the dentist.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Everything You Want to Know About Male and Female Erogenous Zones
description: While certain bits of anatomy (ahem, genitalia) are well-known as sites of sexual pleasure, getting turned on doesn't have to be limited to below the belt. Other areas of the human body have a high concentration of nerve endings, so they're particularly sensitive to touch, pressure, or vibration. These so-called "erogenous zones" can contribute to sexual arousalthink of them as the road map to a happy ending.1
According to Monica Geller of Friends, there are seven erogenous zones on a woman's body, but the exact list (for any gender) remains up to speculation. Still, while everyone is a little different when it comes to getting turned on, people generally agree about which erogenous zones are most pleasurable.2
The human body's erogenous zones might seem like a topic worthy of a Cosmo article, but this information matters for several reasons. Knowing these "hot spots" is a plus for both your partner and yourselfwho would say no to a boost in sexual satisfaction? Identifying different erogenous zones also may improve sexual health; some research suggests that stimulating different spots may produce different reactions in the body. For example, touching the vagina appears to set off the release of the feel-good hormone prolactin, while the cervix may be involved in controlling muscle tension during sex. Understanding erogenous zones is also important to make sure that people undergoing gender reassignment surgery or breast augmentation don't lose significant sexual function.3
All this being said, more research is needed to determine the precise effects of stimulating different areas of the body. In the meantime, might we suggest a little personal experimentation? Get started with the guide below.
The Erogenous Zones on the Female Body1. Clitoris
A runaway winner for the title of "Body Part Contributing Most to Sexual Arousal," the clitoris is extremely sensitive. (Hello, nerve endings!) Research shows that stimulating the clitoris is the fastest and easiest way for many women to orgasm. For the most part, pressure and vibration are the way to go; research suggests light touching doesn't always have the same effect.4
2. Vagina
Heard of the famous mecca of sexual pleasure that is the female "G-spot?" Yeah, researchers are pretty sure that doesn't actually exist. The interior of the vagina, however, does contain nerve endings, and women report that deep stimulation leads to more intense orgasms. The outer edge of the vagina, on the other hand, tends to respond to light touch.5
3. Cervix
The cervix, located at the lower end of the uterus, has its own feel-good nerve pathways. In fact, some research suggests that the vagina, clitoris, and cervix all respond separately and distinctly to sexual stimuli. Nerves in the cervix respond most to pressure stimulation, but light touch has been shown to elicit a response as well.6
4. Mouth and Lips
A recent survey found kissing to be more important in relationship-building than in sexual arousal. But another study suggests that many women rank the lips and mouth highly as erogenous areas. Who says it can't be both?7
5. Neck
According to a large international survey of women, both the nape and back of the neck are among the top 10 erogenous zones. One study found that the neck is very sensitive to light touch, especially (oddly enough) among people with low body fat. Another study found that women with spinal cord injury can get pretty turned on by neck stimulation alone.8
6. Breasts and Nipples
While both men and women may like to look at breasts (for evolutionary purposes, apparently), they're not just for showthey play a role in sexual arousal as well. Turns out nipple stimulation sets fireworks off in the same region of the brain that processes sensations from the clitoris and vagina. Just as with the clitoris, pressure and vibration are generally the way to go.3
7. Ears
Ears are super sensitive to touch, probably due to a large number of nerve endings. Although there's no science yet to say why ears are erogenous, it seems to be a fairly common consensus that they are.
The Erogenous Zones on the Male Body1. Penis
While this one's pretty obvious, it's worth noting that both survey and lab-based scientific experiments demonstrate that penile stimulation significantly contributes to sexual satisfaction. And while this can be a sensitive subject, circumcision doesn't appear to decrease sensation or sexual satisfaction.9
2. Mouth and Lips
Highly sensitive, male lips respond to light touch, temperature, or pressure. Kissing also triggers a release of hormones involved in intimacyespecially oxytocin, the so-called "love hormone." Pucker up!
3. Scrotum
Ranked No. 3 (behind penis and lips) in ability to produce sexual arousal, the scrotum is one of men's most notable erogenous zones. Lots of nerves mean that this area is super-sensitive to touch. However there's no research to back up what sort of touch works best, so you might have to resort to a slightly-less-than-scientific source instead!
4. Neck
While touching the neck doesn't appear to be quite as much of a turn-on for men as for women, it's still ranked pretty highly on the erogenous zones list. The neck has great sensitivity to low-frequency vibration, making it a prime spot for light erotic touch.10
5. Nipples
As with women, men rank nipples as a definite hot spot. While male nipples don't appear to serve any real purpose (they're basically by-products of evolution), that doesn't mean they're totally uselessthey still have plenty of nerve endings!2
6. Perineum
The perineum (the area between the anus and scrotum) is hooked up to perineal nerves, which help convey sensations of sexual pleasure from the genitals to the brain. In other words, if you're not familiar with this area, it might be worth your time to get acquainted.
7. Ears
Highly sensitive to touch because of a high number of sensory receptors on the skin, the ears are ranked just behind the scrotum for body parts that help men orgasm when touched or otherwise stimulated.11
The Takeaway
While sexual arousal seems like a highly individual sort of thing, people generally tend to agree on which spots get their motors running. These so-called "erogenous zones" are linked to feelings of sexual arousalstimulating these spots can ramp up feelings of sexual pleasure and make sex more satisfying. The list above describes some of the most common zones, but it is by no means exhaustive. The best way to find out what you and your partner like? Communicate, experiment, communicate some more, and repeat.
Originally published August 2014. Updated April 2016.
Works Cited
The assessment of sensory detection thresholds on the perineum and breast compared with control body sites. Cordeau D, Blanger M, Beaulieu-Prvost D. The journal of sexual medicine, 2014, May.;11(7):1743-6109.
Reports of intimate touch: erogenous zones and somatosensory cortical organization. Turnbull OH, Lovett VE, Chaldecott J. Cortex; a journal devoted to the study of the nervous system and behavior, 2013, Aug.;53():1973-8102.
Women's clitoris, vagina, and cervix mapped on the sensory cortex: fMRI evidence. Komisaruk BR, Wise N, Frangos E. The journal of sexual medicine, 2011, Jul.;8(10):1743-6109. The assessment of sensory detection thresholds on the perineum and breast compared with control body sites. Cordeau D, Blanger M, Beaulieu-Prvost D. The journal of sexual medicine, 2014, May.;11(7):1743-6109.
Reports of intimate touch: erogenous zones and somatosensory cortical organization. Turnbull OH, Lovett VE, Chaldecott J. Cortex; a journal devoted to the study of the nervous system and behavior, 2013, Aug.;53():1973-8102. Cutaneous corpuscular receptors of the human glans clitoris: descriptive characteristics and comparison with the glans penis. Shih C, Cold CJ, Yang CC. The journal of sexual medicine, 2013, May.;10(7):1743-6109. Self-assessment of genital anatomy, sexual sensitivity and function in women: implications for genitoplasty. Schober JM, Meyer-Bahlburg HF, Ransley PG. BJU international, 2004, Oct.;94(4):1464-4096. The assessment of sensory detection thresholds on the perineum and breast compared with control body sites. Cordeau D, Blanger M, Beaulieu-Prvost D. The journal of sexual medicine, 2014, May.;11(7):1743-6109.
Is the female G-spot truly a distinct anatomic entity? Kilchevsky A, Vardi Y, Lowenstein L. The journal of sexual medicine, 2012, Jan.;9(3):1743-6109. The assessment of sensory detection thresholds on the perineum and breast compared with control body sites. Cordeau D, Blanger M, Beaulieu-Prvost D. The journal of sexual medicine, 2014, May.;11(7):1743-6109.
Women's clitoris, vagina, and cervix mapped on the sensory cortex: fMRI evidence. Komisaruk BR, Wise N, Frangos E. The journal of sexual medicine, 2011, Jul.;8(10):1743-6109. Hysterectomy improves sexual response? Addressing a crucial omission in the literature. Komisaruk BR, Frangos E, Whipple B. Journal of minimally invasive gynecology, 2011, Oct.;18(3):1553-4669.
Examining the possible functions of kissing in romantic relationships. Wlodarski R, Dunbar RI. Archives of sexual behavior, 2013, Oct.;42(8):1573-2800. Reports of intimate touch: erogenous zones and somatosensory cortical organization. Turnbull OH, Lovett VE, Chaldecott J. Cortex; a journal devoted to the study of the nervous system and behavior, 2013, Aug.;53():1973-8102.
Reports of intimate touch: erogenous zones and somatosensory cortical organization. Turnbull OH, Lovett VE, Chaldecott J. Cortex; a journal devoted to the study of the nervous system and behavior, 2013, Aug.;53():1973-8102. Supracutaneous vibrotactile perception threshold at various non-glabrous body loci. Bikah M, Hallbeck MS, Flowers JH. Ergonomics, 2008, Sep.;51(6):0014-0139. Spinal cord injury influences psychogenic as well as physical components of female sexual ability. Anderson KD, Borisoff JF, Johnson RD. Spinal cord, 2006, Oct.;45(5):1362-4393.
Reports of intimate touch: erogenous zones and somatosensory cortical organization. Turnbull OH, Lovett VE, Chaldecott J. Cortex; a journal devoted to the study of the nervous system and behavior, 2013, Aug.;53():1973-8102. Increased sexual health after restored genital sensation in male patients with spina bifida or a spinal cord injury: the TOMAX procedure. Overgoor ML, de Jong TP, Cohen-Kettenis PT. The Journal of urology, 2012, Oct.;189(2):1527-3792. Effects of circumcision on male sexual functions: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Tian Y, Liu W, Wang JZ. Asian journal of andrology, 2013, Jun.;15(5):1745-7262.
Reports of intimate touch: erogenous zones and somatosensory cortical organization. Turnbull OH, Lovett VE, Chaldecott J. Cortex; a journal devoted to the study of the nervous system and behavior, 2013, Aug.;53():1973-8102. Supracutaneous vibrotactile perception threshold at various non-glabrous body loci. Bikah M, Hallbeck MS, Flowers JH. Ergonomics, 2008, Sep.;51(6):0014-0139.
Self-ratings of genital anatomy, sexual sensitivity and function in men using the 'Self-Assessment of Genital Anatomy and Sexual Function, Male' questionnaire. Schober JM, Meyer-Bahlburg HF, Dolezal C. BJU international, 2009, Feb.;103(8):1464-410X.
This article was written by Emily Shoemaker from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: These Birdhouses Will Send Out A Signal If There's A Forest Fire
description: A new birdhouse comes with solar panels and a 3G connectionnot because the birds inside are on Twitter, but because the tiny house doubles as a smoke alarm. If there's a forest fire, the electronics inside the birdhouse can send a signal, complete with GPS coordinates, to local firefighters.
The prototype birdhouses are being tested in Spain, where dozens of wildfires burned tens of thousands of acres in 2015, destroying both wild areas and homes. As fires become even more commondriven by more intense heat waves and climate changeGenerali, a Spanish insurance company, wanted to help fund a better solution for detection. Because a remote fire might not be noticed immediately, it can end up spreading more quickly.
This isn't the first use of remote sensors to detect wildfires. But designers from Ogilvy & Mather came up with the idea of housing the sensors along with birds. "The idea was to create a product that coexisted with its environment in a natural way, providing a benefit," says Pouline Atencio, an art director in Ogilvy's Madrid office who worked on the design.(Your browser doesn't support iframe)The birdhouse is weatherproof, and the electronic portion is also bird-proof. "The house has two compartmentsan upper one where the bird lives, with its entry and plenty of space, fully separated from the sensor so the bird can't damage it," says Atencio. Inside a lower compartment, there's a rechargeable battery, 3G sim card, and an Arduino.
It might be cute, but it could also make a difference in helping stop fires faster. "The sensor can detect smoke in a 20-meter radius," she says. "That way we can protect large areas, especially areas of major ecological interest. Each house is geolocated, so it's possible to know exactly where the fire is starting, minimizing the response time. The less time elapses, the more chances to extinguish the fire on time with minimal environmental consequences."
Generali is also hoping to bring the birdhouse to other parts of the world.
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: When Female Babies Cry, Men Discount Their Distress
description: We make gender assumptions about babies almost immediately after they are born. Based on nothing more than the pitch of their piercing cries, we infer gender, relative comfort or stress level, and even personality.
A new study from the University of Sussex shows that we start stereotyping babies based on gender as young as three months old. We assume that babies with higher-pitched cries are female, and that the higher-pitched the cry relative to gender, the more discomfort the baby is in.
"It is intriguing that gender stereotyping can start as young as three months," says author David Reby, "with adults attributing degrees of femininity and masculinity to babies solely based on the pitch of their cries. Adults who are told, or already know, that a baby with a high-pitched cry is a boy said they thought he was less masculine than average. And baby girls with low-pitched voices are perceived as less feminine."
spass via Shutterstock
And it's all bunk. The difference in average pitch between adult males and females is down to differences in the length of the vocal cords, which doesn't occur until puberty. In babies, there is no actual difference in pitch between genders.
The study recorded real babies in a situation almost guaranteed to make them wailbath time. The recordings were were made at home, over a period of four months. After some processing, the sounds were played back to participants in randomized, double-blind tests.
The listeners were found to assess the babies' sex based on the pitch of their cries, and to attribute stress levels dependent on pitch. Men assumed male babies were more stressed than females when both were crying at the same pitcha result the author believes indicates gender stereotyping is more ingrained in men.
"If a baby girl is in intense discomfort and her cry is high-pitched, her needs might be more easily overlooked when compared with a boy crying at the same pitch," Reby says.
Parents and caregivers should be made aware of this information so that they can discount the pitch of the cry when trying to work out what the whining little tyke wants. Or at least, they can discount gender bias when assessing the cries. Now, if only parents would stop dressing their boys in blue and their girls in pink.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The 7 Most Important Things True Friends Do
description: Friends come into our lives in many ways. Some were born down the street or remember when we first got our braces on. Others we know from college dorms or the next cubicle over at work. Then there are those unexpected people who burst in over brunch and force you to take notice.If youre like me, your friends are a mix of all of the above. What Ive learned as I get older is that no matter how people come into my life, not all of them are there to stay.
Some people enter our lives at a particular period when we need them most, stay awhile, and move on. Its part of the natural process of adulthood. But a select few are in it for the long haul. Here are the seven most important things true friends do.
1. Theyre just as happy staying in with you as going out.
In our early 20s, my friends and I would get together over cheese plates and cocktails to do our hair and makeup before a night out. My favorite part of those evenings wasnt the end goalgoing out, dancing, and potentially meeting guys. It was the moments when my friends and I were together, talking and catching up about what was going on in our lives. Sure, the dancing was fun, and we met a few interesting people as those nights wound down, but the getting-ready part was always way more fun than swaying in the dark, sipping overpriced beers.
Just this winter I rented a cabin with three of my closest friends. We packed outfits to go out... but ended up staying in by the fire, cooking for each other and having some of the deepest, funniest conversations weve shared to date. We talked about what scares us, what has hurts us the most, and what we want for our futures. With these friends by my side, the future seems a lot less scary.
2. They call or text because they care, not because they want something.
We all know someone who appears out of the blue when they want an intro to a common LinkedIn connection or when you happen to be invited to the same wedding. Which is finehaving a big network is a good thing! But I once had a "friend" who only texted me when she wanted to know what my plans were on Saturday night. She was fun to go out with, but it quickly became clear that we didnt have much in common outside of our location on any given weekend.
A true friend will remember that you have a big presentation at work or will check in if your grandmother is sick because they care about you, not because they want something from you. Remembering the details of your friends lives shows that they are a part of yours, even when you cant be together.3. They are at your side for the tougher parts of life.
Sure, we all expect our friends to be singing karaoke with us on our birthday, standing beside us in whatever bridesmaid dress or suit we ask them to on our wedding day, and cheering us on at graduation. But there are other, less-happy moments in life when friends are all the more necessary.
When I lost a parent at 23, friends flew to Boston from DC, New York, and even California to be with me. At one point, my friends from home and college were all gathered in my childhood bedroom, leaning in to give me a group hug, and I can honestly say that every single person in that room is still a part of my life today.
4. When they date someone, they dont disappear... for too long.
Its normal to get excited about a budding romance, but a true friend wont ditch the important people in his or her life for a new partner.
One year, I invited five close friendssome partnered, some notfor an intimate birthday dinner before a bigger party later that night. A friend I hadnt seen in months asked to bring her new boyfriend to the dinner, and when I told her I was keeping it small, but he was welcome at the party itself, that friend skipped dinner rather than spend two hours without the person she was seeing daily. We all missed her and had been missing her for months.
If a partner is great, they can become part of the crew (and Ive met amazing people this way!), but true friends will also make themselves available one-on-one.
5. They know exactly how to cheer you up.
I once went through a heartrending breakup while on a girls vacation at the beach. The trip promised to be full of frozen drinks, glowing sunsets... and ugly cries. My friend Lauren knew exactly what to do. She got me out of bed, dragged me to the beach, and presented me with an entire plate of chocolate chip pancakes and a pitcher of margaritas for us to share while gazing at the ocean. I didnt have to say a word; she just let me have space while letting me know she was there. With chocolate. And tequila.6. They really listen.
Youre at the bar, and Bradley Cooper walks into the room. Only you dont even know it, because your friend who is facing the door is too wrapped up in your conversation. (OK, if Bradley Cooper walked into a bar and my friend didnt tell me immediately, our friendship would likely be over). But you know what I mean.
Weve all had instances where were in the middle of a story and the person in front of us is completely checked out, nodding their head at what were saying but a million miles away. True friends see and hear you fully.
7. They love you for who you are, not where you are.
Some of my dearest friends came into my life when we were all entry-level assistants. Now, nine years later, were in a smattering of high-powered, badass jobs. Some of us are married. Some of us have three roommates and Tinder on our phones. Whats changed? We can afford to go out and buy wine by the bottle instead of the glass and take ourselves out to restaurants instead of waiting for our parents to take us out for birthday dinners. But our support for one another hasnt wavered. The people in your life who are here to stay have loved you regardless of your job title or relationship status. They stick around through the low points and celebrate your successes right alongside you.
This article was written by Jessica Rotondi from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The $2 Trillion In Fossil Fuel Assets That Fail The 2-Degree Stress Test
description: It turns out when you do the "two-degree stress test," a lot of fossil fuel production doesn't look so clever. If the world is going to stay under internationally agreed limits for carbon emissions, it's going to have to leave some coal, oil, and gas in the ground.
The charts here come from Carbon Tracker, a London nonprofit. They show the difference between the International Energy Agency's 450 Scenario (450 referring to the concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere) and what the energy industry is planning for the next 20 years. If we're going to have an "energy pathway consistent with the goal of limiting the global increase in temperature to 2C"which is what the 450 Scenario doessome investment in the world's fossil deposits will need to be junked.
The report says that more than $2 trillion of capital expenditures need to "not be approved" in order to avoid the necessary emissions. This is the equivalent of cutting fossil fuel supply (and emissions) by about a quarter.
The analysis shows $412 billion of unwarranted energy investment in the United States, $179 billion in China, and $147 billion in Russia. It means no new coal mines, no Canadian oil sands, and no Arctic exploration.
The Paris climate agreementnow signed by as many as 170 governmentsoffers some hope that this can get done. But surely the real action is on the capital markets where the energy giantsand the people who invest in themdecide whether to pursue new coal, oil, and gas projects.
Carbon Tracker calls on energy companies to report their assets in light of the two degrees signal, for analysts to do more "sensitivity analysis" of when companies are skirting the limits, and for governments to stress test their energy policies for two degrees.
At the moment, the capital markets don't reflect underlying climate math. And, until they do, no international climate agreement will be worth the fancy ink it's written in.
Cover Photo: SvedOliver via Shutterstock
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Why Traffic Studies Make Our Cities Worse For Everyone
description: Each time a major building development is planned, a traffic study is carried out. The surrounding roads are redesigned to ensure we can still get around like we could before the project was built, and the costs are shouldered by the developer, not the state. Sounds great, right?
In fact, traffic studies, and the roads they end up creating, make our cities much worse for pedestrians, for anyone not using a car, and for anyone living nearby. They also end up costing the state money, and bring extra congestion to existing highways and city roads. Let's see why.
When a new development is proposed, typically the developer must do a traffic studies, or traffic impact assessment. Because traffic engineers are engineers, they usually over-engineer, and this, combined with the data from the assumptions, leads to huge intersections designed never to choke up. As you can imagine, that's great for cars passing through, but terrible for anyone else.
As the traffic blog Urban Kchoze puts it:
Huge intersections like these tend to result in high-speed travel during most periods of the day when it is not congested, creating noise pollution and having the potential for very dangerous crashes ... Their surplus capacity may also induce more vehicle traffic than would have happened otherwise. Finally, their huge size makes them a barrier to non-motorized travel.
Instead of a relatively small, slow-flowing road that can be crossed, we end intersections with 130-foot crosswalks, discouraging pretty much anyone sane from trying it. This leads to a self-fulfilling prophecyfuture traffic studies assume that all travel is car-based, resulting in more road systems that can only be navigated by car.
This method also leads to sprawl. Because developers have to pay for any redevelopment of the roads, they favor building in areas that need little change. Developing in urban centers costs a fortune when you have to re-route or widen roads, so they look to the edge of town, where the roads aren't yet near capacity.
The irony is that development in central urban areas wouldn't necessarily increase road traffic, because many of the visitors would arrive on foot, or using existing public transit. But by developing at the edges of the city, these developments increase car use, further marginalizing alternate transport methods.
As long as our traffic studies remain so biased towards avoid any possible delay for car users, at the expense of everything else, achieving something better will remain impossible.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: "Zero Minutes Of Fame" Hides The Names Of Mass Shooters On The Internet
description: Every time there is a horrific mass shooting that makes national news, there is a debate in the media about how much to talk about the killer. Gun control advocates believe that the endless coverage of perpetrator and dissemination of their image disrespects the victims, and some research even shows it brings "fame" to the attackers in a way that may inspire others.
In today's 24/7 news cycle, the intense media coverage of the killers is seemingly inevitable. But now with a new Chrome plug-in by the Brady Campaign and the marketing firm Ogilvy Mather, anyone can choose to not give killers the fame they want.
"Zero Minutes of Fame" deletes the killers' names from major news sites and Google search results and replaces them with odes to the victims. The plug-in, released with a new PSA, isn't perfect because it only covers certain major sites, like CNN. But the point is well taken.
The Brady Campaign cites media figures like Anderson Cooper, Megyn Kelly, and People magazine that have adopted policies to avoid giving shooters notoriety by reducing or refraining from the use of their name and images. Others believe the media has a duty to report the facts of a crime in the public interestand that includes details about how and why the crime occurred.
According to the Brady Campaign, 30% of mass shootings are inspired by previous events. If that's the case, solving the root cause of these problems is really what's necessary. A real media blackout is verging on impossible.
This article was written by Jessica Leber from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The Case Against Minimalism: When It's Good to Want More
description: Here's what I want to admit even though it feels uncomfortable: I want a big life. I want greatness. I want big impact.
I'm done lessening my desire. Simplicity sounds like something I should want. But honestly? I want my life to be stunningly, crazily, stupidly complex.
I too have yearned for a simpler existence, a metaphorical cabin in the woods away from the pressures of modern life. I have downsized and minimized both my physical and emotional needs.
But I look at greatness and I wonder if the greatest thinkers and innovators would have amassed their influence had they tampered down their desire, their ambition, their hunger for something larger than simple pleasures.
Minimalism and the embracing of simple pleasures has permeated our current culture, and I get it. I understand the rejection of mass consumption. I understand the need for minimalism and simplicity, to encourage others to question their consumptive habits. But I find that too much minimalism is paradoxically too much of a good thing.
I think it's completely OK to want things, to chase after experiences beyond sitting in nature staring at a tree. For example, I think being in nature is wonderful, but it's not going to satisfy a hunger for a Big Life. I love the idea of purging your possessions, but I don't love the idea of shaming others because they want to experience physical success. Perhaps minimalism is a great ground zero to begin again from, but I am hesitant about staying there, about building a home in small desires.When minimalism and the pursuit of simple turns into a weird competition of who can want the least, the point has been missed. Since when did it become trendy to tamp down desire to the lowest amount possible?
In my experience, downsizing my ambition, wants, needs, and desires has always been a product of fear. The lower my expectations, the less room for disappointment, failure, and struggle. If I can make my wants small enough to achieve them with ease, then I will never suffer.
I will also never strive, achieve, or impact.
That's a dangerous game to play with yourself, because what seems virtuous can also seem a lot like making yourself small enough to bow down to fear. While I am against blind consumption, I am also against the idea that we should make our lives as small as possible, to never strive, to stop dreaming of impact and change.
Giving up on high expectations looks an awful lot like giving up on yourself.
Because the truth is that it's scary to dream. It's scary to risk disappointment and failure and the possibility of finding out that your dream may not be your future. But we all inherently understand that great things usually are born from great risk. If we are given just one life, why would we ever want to make our wants and desires and needs so small? Why would we want to simplify ourselves down when we can live in the messy and beautiful world of complexity?
I understand the desire to simplify, and it seems legitimate. It seems like a good idea to stop striving and to be present enough to enjoy what is now and happening and here. I do not advocate that anyone trade on their present misery for a future payoff. But I don't know that present gratefulness should ever cause complacency.
This world does not need more mindless consumption... But we do need more hope, more people brazen enough to believe that there is always more work that needs to be done to bring a better world.
While I thought simplicity and less expectations and less desire would bring me more gratefulness, all it really did was leave me nothing to look forward to, nothing at all ahead in my life to work toward. Life is long, and dreams keep you alive and purposeful. Simplifying my life down to being grateful for just the smallest things improved my state of mind in some ways, but overall brought me a sense that no future joy was available. That if this is the best there is, then why keep going? Why do nothing but maintain?
Yet we are not built for maintenance. If we were, our world would not have progressed. We would not be innovating or improving. We would simply be existing. This world does not need more mindless consumption, that is for sure. But we do need more hope, more people brazen enough to believe that there is always more impact, more work that needs to be done to bring a better world.
Make your wants small if that's your desire. But if it's out of fear, that's a slippery slope. Because if you're trying to fit yourself into a smaller life in order to avoid the risk of trying, then how satisfied can you really be? If the pursuit of simplicity is born from a panicked need for easy, then I would reassess. Is that what you want from your one life? To want less in order to try less?
This post originally appeared on Medium and was republished with the author's permission. Jamie Varon is a writer based in Los Angeles. The views expressed herein are hers. Follow her on Instagram, Twitter, and Facebook.
This article was written by Jamie Varon from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 7 Dreamy Dairy-Free Smoothie Recipes
description: We spend a lot of time scouring the Web for tasty, trendy, and healthy recipes. It's one of the many perks of working at Greatist. In the process, we come across some amazing resources for easy meals that prove cooking healthy doesn't have to be expensive or a giant time suck. And now, we want to make a habit of sharing them with you!
This week's featured foodie is Angela Simpson of Eat-Spin-Run-Repeat.com. An avid runner and health coach, Angela's goal is to inspire others to live life to the fullest and to passionately chase their goalsall while eating clean, nutrient-dense foods that don't skimp on flavor. Case in point: These seven delicious, dairy-free smoothies. Enjoy!1. Coconut Cashew Smoothie Bowl
This smoothie bowl is so creamy, youd swear it contained dairy. But dont be fooledblended bananas, cashew milk, and a generous scoop of cashew butter are what makes it smooth, sweet, and satisfying.2. Green Grapefruit Smoothie
If youre not keen on the bitterness of grapefruits but still want to take advantage of their health benefits, this is the smoothie for you. It's naturally sweetened with banana and super creamy, thanks to avocado. Blended with some chilled green tea, this smoothie will give you more energy than your morning cup of coffee.3. Vitamin C Booster Smoothie Bowl
Even if youre not feeling under the weather, this smoothie bowl is a great way to keep your immune system strong. Chia seeds provide a dose of healthy omega-3 fatty acids and fiber, which will help keep you feeling full for hours.4. Pineapple Coconut Green Smoothie
Pineapple is an excellent fruit for masking the taste of greens, and it adds a nice tartness to this smoothie. Garnish with some toasted coconut, close your eyes, and daydream about lying on the beach!5. Acai Cherry Smoothie Bowl
Hello, antioxidants! But health benefits aside, this smoothie bowl tastes amazing and can be dressed up with whatever toppings you like.6. Chocolate Covered Almond Smoothie
Can you ever go wrong with chocolate and nut butter? Made with frozen bananas, chocolate protein powder, gluten-free oats, and a big dollop of almond butter, the thought of this smoothie during your next run (or meeting) might just help you find the motivation you need to finish strong.7. Blueberry Almond Smoothie Bowl
Using frozen blueberries and fiber-rich chia seeds for this recipe helps thicken the texture, which means you wont need as much ice (it dilutes the flavor). Top it with more blueberries, almonds, and your favorite granola.
To learn more about Angela, check out her blog or follow her on Instagram, Facebook, and/or Pinterest.
This article was written by eat spin run repeat from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: "Gasland" Director Josh Fox's New Documentary Explores The Emotional Side Of Climate Change
description: In the opening of his new movie, How to Let Go and Love All the Things Climate Can't Change, director Josh Fox is celebrating the major victory for the anti-fracking movement that blocked gas drilling in the Delaware River basin. But his elation is short lived. As he sits appreciating the forest near his Pennsylvania home, now protected from fossil fuel companies, he notices the hemlock tree he planted as a child is dying.
The dying treeinfested by a pest that has moved north due to the warmer winters fueled by climate changeis a good metaphor for the hopelessness nearly every environmental activist faces eventually, inevitably. Fox's movie Gasland may have helped win the battle to protect the woods near his home, but climate change often feels inexorable. It will win the war.
How to Let Go and Love All the Things Climate Can't Change, which airs on June 27 on HBO and is screening in limited theaters around the country, is not your typical climate change documentary. Focusing on Hurricane Sandy and then showing a string of interviews with scientists and activists, the film does devote a requisite 30 minutes to both the dire fate of the planet already foretold by humanity's greenhouse gas emissions to dateand how much worse it could get. Floods, droughts, migration, and disease are presented almost like an urgent spoken word poem, putting the viewer in a state of panic and gloom, which is exactly how Fox felt while filming.
But it's not the science or even the activism that is notable in the film. It's this emotional reaction to what it all means. Fox didn't set out with this approach when he decided to make a movie about climate change to complete his Gasland "trilogy" (the second movie came out in 2013).(Your browser doesn't support iframe)"I thought, I have to finish this cycle, and then you realize how dark and difficult this stuff is. It is more difficult than fracking in a lot of ways. You can ban fracking, but you can't ban climate change," he told Co.Exist in an interview.
"I couldn't make a movie that said it'll be okay, if we campaign. I had to do something differently. I had to go through that window of despair and see how there's denial on both sides of the equation and pop out the other side where there is a different set of conclusions that have to be drawn."
By denial, he means not only the politicians who deny the science of climate change, but even those who fully embrace it but have trouble grappling with the scale of the destruction the rising temperatures will bring.
This movie does grapple with it, through the stories of communities who are living the worst of climate change right now. He joins Pacific Islanders "warriors" who fearlessly blockade a coal tanker to protect their flooding communities, Amazonian tribes who are standing up against powerful corporate interests to prevent wholesale deforestation and oil drilling, and Chinese citizens developing renewable energy in the face of choking air pollution, government oppression, and relentless consumerism.
"If we're going to get out of the climate change catastrophe with any shred of our humanity, we're going to have to live with a different set of values."
The moral of their stories, in the view of the film, isn't that these little guys will necessarily save the world, but that by not giving into despair and hopelessness, they are underscoring the basic human values that the climate change can't ruin: courage, creativity, innovation, love, and community (I've never seen a discussion about "innovation" bring anyone to tears, but yes, you can see that in the film).
"If we're going to get out of the climate change catastrophe with any shred of our humanity, we're going to have to live with a different set of values," Fox says. "It's not just about power plants and curtailing emissions, it's about the basics of who we are as a species."
The film ends again with celebration and dance. Fox's emotional journey has come full circle. His childhood tree may be dying, but he has found that his hope doesn't have to.
This article was written by Jessica Leber from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: These Extra-Efficient Elevators Almost Double The Amount Of People You Can Move
description: The reason we don't have mile-high skyscrapers isn't because we can't build them. It's because you can't get to the top. The biggest limiting factor in skyscraper design is the elevators. The cables that carry them are limited in length, and to have enough cars to service ever-taller buildings, and with the extra people that use them, you need to fill most of the tower's interior with elevator shafts.
ThyssenKrupp's Twin elevators solve one part of this problem, by putting two elevator cars into one shaft. The cars share not only the shaft, but everything elsethe hoistway, the "landing doors" (what you and I just call "doors"), and the guide rails. ThyssenKrupp says that the Twin can shift 40% more passengers than a single-car shaft.
Energy-wise, the savings are big. First, the building needs fewer shafts, saving on building materials and costs. And second, the elevators can be fitted with energy-recovery systems that recycle the energy from braking, putting around 30% of that energy back into the building's own grid.
But perhaps the best part of the Twin is ThyssenKrupp's routing system (which is also available on its regular elevators). Instead of hitting a call button and then selecting your floor when you get inside the elevator, you tap your destination floor on a panel in the hallway, and you're directed to the correct car. This means you wait less, the trips are faster (because the optimum route can be calculated by the system), and the cars run empty far less often. This last saves energy.
There are other benefits to having a two-car system. For instance, one can be kept in service while the other is down for maintenance.
The Twin has been around for a little while, but is about to make its debut in the U.S., in Atlanta's Coda development, says Treehugger's Muriel Vega, beginning in 2018. Until then, why not take the stairs?
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Modular Cricket Pod Lets You Create An Urban Insect Farm
description: Walking up to the Cricket Sheltera new tent-like structure sitting on a dock at the Brooklyn Navy Yardit might not immediately be obvious that it's full of bugs. But inside pods lining the walls, the prototype is raising 22,000 crickets. Why? To eat, of course.
As the bug food trend continues, the Cricket Shelter is designed to make it local. The shelter can easily pop up on a rooftop or empty lot.
"They would fit right into the massive onslaught of urban farms that are happening in Brooklyn and the rest of New York," says Mitchell Joachim, founder of Terreform, the architecture firm that designed the modular cricket farm. "These farms would be great alongside solar panels and other things you'd probably want to grow on the roof. So there's an enormous amount of opportunity to have this produced locally."
Several startups are working on new systems to raise crickets, driven in part by the fact that insect protein has a tiny environmental footprint compared to beef or chicken. But while others work on industrial-scale, automated cricket farms, the Cricket Shelter is designed as a simple system that could also work for small producers.
Unlike a typical DIY cricket farm, the Cricket Shelter is designed to produce a product they say is cleaner than some farms. "They kind of collect the dead crickets and their poop and any other bits of slop and they mix it all up," says Joachim. The new system is simple to clean, and the crickets can be harvested by turning a dial on each pod and emptying it out.
The design also lets crickets move aroundthe cricket version of something close to free-rangewhile also raising as many insects as possible. As the crickets grow, the designers are experimenting with how their feed can change the flavor.
"We're very interested in gut-loading them with orange peels, apple cores, lime rinds, so they actually taste exquisite," he says. "They absorb that into their body's metabolism."
Quill-like shapes on the top of the shelter help with ventilation, sucking stale air out of the colonies so the shelter doesn't smell like crickets. As a side effect, the quills pick up the sound of the male crickets chirping and amplify it in the surrounding area.
It's a pleasant place to be, and that's by design. The architects originally created the shelter for disaster zoneswhere the farms can double as a somewhat strange place to sleep. After a disaster, "people don't just need a place to protect themselves from the elements," Joachim says. "They actually need to get access to food."
In a disaster, the design would be simplified to a basic arch shape that's easy to quickly replicate. As someone sleeps under the archsurrounded by the chirping of cricketsJoachim thinks it could be relaxing.
"I think it beats a cardboard shelter or some vinyl tarp that's flapping in the wind," he says. "Here you have the sound of an organism that supplies sustenance for yourself and your family. As long as you have that, there's a bit of comfort that you can make it through this disaster. Once the disaster's complete, you can still use these shelters as a source of income."
At the moment, however, the designers are focused on how the farms can become part of the local food scene in New York. Robyn Shapiro, an entrepreneur who plans to launch a line of insect-based snacks this summer, has been collaborating with the designers. "Being able to create a 100% local product is exciting," she says.
After the crickets are harvested, they are ground into a powder that can be used in food. "We're not interested in making crickets that you just mash up and eat," says Joachim. "I think Americans, especially New Yorkers, are not going to eat eyeballs and legsI can't even do that."
Cricket powder is already quickly becoming acceptable, and in some cases, used in high-end restaurants. Joachim compares it to sushi; when sushi was first introduced in the U.S., older generations didn't like the idea of eating raw fish.
"It went from completely absurd and mostly disgusting to what you do when you really like someone and you want to go out on a nice date," he says. "I think insects will have a similar narrative. There will be first adopters. But if it really gets transported into the level of a Michelin-rated restaurant, I think that really helps trickle it down to the Homer Simpsons of America, who can think of this as a realistic replacement in their diet. And then without knowing, do something great for the atmosphere."
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: A 5-Minute Meditation for Better Focus
description: Some days it feels like the to-do list never ends. And despite your best efforts to concentrate and cross things off one at a time, you feel pulled in a million different directions and unable to focus.
With so much on your plate, meditation might seem like the last thing you have time to do. But this guided meditation takes just five minutes. Yep, in less time than it takes to scroll through your Instagram feed, youll tap into your inner calm so you can tackle the rest of the day feeling relaxed and focused.
All you need is some peace and quiet and a comfortable place to sit. Surrounded by chaos? Simply plug in some headphones. You dont even need to watch this videojust close your eyes, follow along with the audio cues, and remember to breathe.
Looking for more short and effective at-home workouts? Grokker has thousands of routines, so youll never get bored. Bonus: For a limited time, Greatist readers get 40 percent off Grokker Premium (just $9 per month) and their first 14 days free. Sign up now!
This article was written by The Greatist Team from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Model Has a Powerful Message About the Word Fat
description: Thankfully we are starting to see more and more body types represented in the media, but we still have a long way to go in how we talk about body positivity. That's why we love this honest and powerful video from British model Olivia Campbell, in which she tells us exactly how we should think about the word fat: It's just a word. "It's something I couldn't change, but I tried to change because I was told to change it all the time," she says, "but now I call myself fat all the time. I am fat."
The video is almost 10 minutes long but worth every second. Campbell describes her struggles with body image, mental health, and parenthoodand how she's come to love her body. Throughout the video Campbell undresses, taking off one article of clothing at time, making her emotional story even more powerful. If you skip to 5:35, you can hear Campbell talk about her own battle with depression, which she describes as feeling like being stuck in quicksand, even though you're using all your mental, physical, and emotional energy to get out.
We're so inspired by her emotional story, awesome confidence, and dedication to teaching all of us about body image and mental health.
You can check out other powerful accounts of self-acceptance from the What's Underneath Project here.
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Device Claims It Can "Switch Off" Period Cramps
description: We're willing to try pretty much anything to get rid of period pain (OK, maybe not anything). But when we heard about Livia, a pain management device that's touted as "the off-switch for your menstrual cramps," we thought it must be too good to be true.
Livia, which uses electric signals to block pain messages to your brain (you attach two pads to your lower abs), has gotten lots of attention lately and has far surpassed its Indiegogo goal. But doctors aren't so sure alleviating cramps is as simple as pushing a button.
Livia is similar to TENS (Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation), a strategy used for migraines and arthritis that blocks receptors sending pain signals to your brain, but the research behind it is inconsistent, says Sherry Ross, M.D., an OB/GYN at Providence Saint John's Health Center in Santa Monica, CA. Livia itself isn't approved by the FDA, and it's been tested only in a study of 163 women.
"Until more long-term and reliable clinical studies can be done, a Motrin 800 is just as effective and less costly," she says. A representative from the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists also told Mashable that, as far as they can tell, there's no actual evidence to support the device.That's not to say it won't improve cramps for certain women. "If, as some people think, TENS works to release endorphins, then it could possibly be of some usemost likely in combination with other therapies like heat," says Robert Berg, M.D., an OB/GYN at NYU Langone Medical Center. Not to mention that if you think the product works, your cramps may fade away. "The placebo effect is a wonderful thing," Berg says.
Although Livia doesn't seem to be dangerous (except for people with a pacemaker or heart rhythm problem), you may want to talk with your doctor or wait for more research before strapping on this "magic" device.
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Watch This Badass Mom Do Yoga With Kids on Her Back
description: OK, we'll be the first to admit we're obsessed with cool yoga photos, but this video of a mom doing yoga with her kids on her back seriously blew our minds. Former Cirque de Soleil performer and badass mama Gaukhar Akhmetova-Atherton makes it look like yoga is supposed to be done this way. We're pretty sure she wins for best piggyback rides ever.
Check out more of her insane yoga poses (featuring kids and adults on her back) below:
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Video Explains Why We Kiss
description: When you think about it, kissing is pretty weird. Youre basically rubbing the organ you use for eating and speaking against someone else's, an act that could be looked at as, well, gross. According to this video by The School of Life, it's precisely the taboo nature of kissing that makes it so exciting. It signals that you accept the other person to such an extent that youre willing to do something otherwise quite repulsive with them.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Climate Change is Devastating The Great Barrier Reef
description: Warm ocean waters that sucked the color and vigor from sweeping stretches of the worlds greatest expanse of corals last month were driven by climate change, according to a new analysis by scientists, who are warning of worse impacts ahead.
Climate change made it 175 times more likely that the surface waters of the Coral Sea, which off the Queensland coastline is home to Australias Great Barrier Reef, would reach the record-breaking temperatures last month that bleached reefs, modeling analysis showed.Bleaching of the Great Barrier Reef.
Credit:Oregon State University/Flickr
The scientists found March Coral Sea temperatures are likely to be 1.8F (1C) warmer now than before humans polluted the atmosphere. Temperatures recorded by the Australian government last month were slightly higher than that, in part because of a fierce El Nio.
Weve had evidence before that human-induced climate change is behind the increase in severity and frequency of bleaching events, said David Kline, a Scripps Institution of Oceanography coral reef scientist who wasnt involved with the new analysis. But this is the smoking gun.
{related}
The new findings suggest similar temperatures will become commonplace by the 2030s, potentially destroying the reef and the tourism and fishing industries that rely on it. The reefs tourism sector employs 64,000 people.
There may still be corals, but itll look like a very sad reef, Kline said. There will probably be a few weedy species that can handle these nasty conditions, but well lose a lot of the biodiversity.
The warm Coral Sea waters have fueled the worst mass coral bleaching ever recorded on the World Heritage-listed reefs, which are withering from warming and acidifying waters, coral-eating pests and agricultural pollution.Bleaching occurs when warm waters cause the colorful algae that provide food for corals to release chemicals that are toxic to their hosts, and they are spat out. Corals, which are rigid animals that shelter rich ecosystems, can recover from bleaching. But persistent high temperatures, overfishing and other environmental stresses make it more likely they will starve and die.
As the seas warm because of our effect on the climate, bleaching events in the Great Barrier Reef and other areas within the Coral Sea are likely to become more frequent and more devastating, the team of Australian university scientists wrote Thursday in The Conversation, announcing the results of the analysis.
Following global average temperature records set in 2014, 2015, January, February and March, coral reefs from Florida to India have been devastated by the third mass global bleaching event recorded. The first occurred in the late 1990s, leaving one out of six of the worlds corals dead.
Recent surveys showed 93 percent of the Great Barrier Reef afflicted by bleaching, with the impacts worst in the reefs more pristine northern reaches.
(Your browser doesn't support iframe)Although the surface temperatures in March were unprecedented, they could become normal within 20 years, the scientists discovered.
The researchers ran earth model simulations in which greenhouse gases were kept at natural levels. They compared those simulated Coral Sea temperatures with those in modeling runs where climate-changing pollution increased at current rapid rates.
The human effect on the region through climate change is clear and it is strengthening, the scientists wrote. Surface temperatures like those in March 2016 would be extremely unlikely to occur in a world without humans.
The analysis was produced using established modeling techniques but it wasnt peer-reviewed before the results were announced Thursday on The Conversation, which is a nonprofit news site founded in Australia that frequently publishes articles written by scientists.
Because this is happening now, we wanted to do this quickly and get it in the public sphere, said Andrew King, one of two University of Melbourne researchers who worked on the analysis. University of Queensland and University of New South Wales researchers also contributed. We will write up a paper after this.
By the 2030s, the modeling showed this years coral bleaching temperatures could become average and after that they may start to seem cool.
These kinds of temperatures in the future will become normal, King said. Theyre high for the current period, but by the 2030s its going to be about average.
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Should You Really Stop Hugging Your Dog?
description: By now you've probably seen at least one headline claiming that dogs hate hugs. But what you may not know is that those articles are not referencing a scientific study but rather an op-ed from Psychology Today.
The author of the article, Stanley Coren, Ph.D., analyzed more than 200 photos of people hugging their pups. He looked for signs of doggy stressdrooped-down ears, half-moon eyes (when you can see the white part at the corner or rim), turned-away headsand found that the majority of dogs displayed at least one sign. His theory? Dogs are naturally built to run, so when you restrain them from moving, it makes them more stressed.
Worst news ever, we know. But it's important to recognize that this is just one researcher's observations, not a peer-reviewed study. As The Washington Post points out, we don't know how random the photo selection actually was, nor do we have much background on the photos (was the pup already stressed? How does the dog typically appear when he's not being hugged?).
So while we're not suggesting you smother your dog in hugs and kisses, more research is certainly needed. The most important thing is to pay attention to your own dog's reaction. And if you're at all worried, you can always opt for a nice belly rub or head pat instead.
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Introducing "Merdacotta," A Wonderful New Material Made From Cow Poop
description: Every day, the cows on Gianantonio Locatelli's dairy farm in northern Italy produce around 30,000 liters of milk. They also make 100,000 kilos of poop. For the farmer, as he considered how to deal with the massive piles, he started to see the potential for using it as a new material.
During Milan design week, Locatelli, along with architect Luca Cipelletti, displayed their latest project: A line of new terracotta-like products made from the farm's poop and clay, a material they call merdacotta.
"The key concept behind the all project is the respect of poop as a rich material with possible and sustainable usesnot waste," says Cipelletti, who has been collaborating with Locatelli for four years. The products, which range from flower pots to furniture, don't smell. The poop goes through a biogas generator, which extracts methane to produce energy and leaves behind dry, odorless dung. Then it's mixed with straw, farm waste, and Tuscan clay, and molded into something new.
Tiles made from dung can be used on floors or walls; "merdacotta" flower pots look like traditional pots, but are sturdier in cold weather. A "shit cube" is designed as a stool or a nightstand, while the "shit giga brick" can be a bench or table ("merda" means "shit" in Italian). Then there's the "shit toilet," which the designers describe as "a receptacle for shit made of shit."
"The materiality is warm and honest," says Cipelletti. "[There's also] a lightness to merdacotta, which industrial terracotta has lost."
Back on the farm, Locatelli and Cipelletti run the Museo della Merda (The Shit Museum), housed in a medieval castle called Castelbosco on the site, where visitors can learn how the farm is processing waste. If it seems whimsical, it's actually pointing to a serious problem: methane from cow manure, along with cow farts and burping, is one of the reasons that livestock contribute 18% of climate emissions.
As the project shows, that pollution can be mitigatedand the poop can actually turn into something worthwhileboth energy and objects. "It follows a principle that redesigns the cycle of nature to form a virtuous circle," says Cipelletti. "Giving shit back the value it deserves. The Shit Museum is cultural project and a starting point in a possible change."
Each of the products is produced in limited editions, though Cipelletti has bigger ambitions. "I'd like to use it in the construction of a pavilion orwhy notan entire house," he says.
All Photos: Henrik Blomqvist
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Mass Government Surveillance Is Chilling To Online Dissent
description: We act differently when we know we're being watched, and that includes adapting our online behavior because we know that the government is tracking our every move. If you've ever changed what you were about to write in a forum post, or censored a tweet because you thought it might get picked up by the NSA, you already know that this is true.
Self-censorship is particularly dangerous, because it can silence minority opinions, says a new research paper by Wayne State University journalism professor Elizabeth Stoycheff. It can lead, she says, to a "spiral of silence," wherein "individuals, motivated by fear of isolation, continuously monitor their environments to assess whether their beliefs align with or contradict majority opinion."
The Internet allows more views and beliefs to be heard than ever before on Facebook and other social sites. Often, these large, diverse online networks offer a more accurate picture of majority opinion than our close-knit but less diverse real-life relationships, which seems to be a good thing. The problem is that this majority "opinion climate" can dominate, suppressing minority views.
Ilya Andriyanov via Shutterstock
Stoycheff's study shows that surveillance further strengthens this majority opinion, which creates a "chilling effect on democratic discourse by stifling the expression of minority political view."
Security writer Bruce Schneier agrees. This is from his book, Data and Goliath:
Across the U.S., states are on the verge of reversing decades-old laws about homosexual relationships and marijuana use. If the old laws could have been perfectly enforced through surveillance, society would never have reached the point where the majority of citizens thought those things were okay. There has to be a period where they are still illegal yet increasingly tolerated, so that people can look around and say, "You know, that wasn't so bad." Yes, the process takes decades, but it's a process that can't happen without lawbreaking.
To study the effect, Stoycheff designed a test. First, respondents filled out an online questionnaire about U.S. air strikes in Syria and Iraq. The survey also determined their opinion of government surveillance, their political attitudes, and other personality traits and habits. Then the participants were shown a fake Facebook post on air strikes against ISIS, and asked if they would publicly express their opinions on it.
The trick came in the form of a message shown to some of the participants before the reading the fake Facebook post. Here's the message:
The next section of the survey asks for your honest opinions about some controversial political issues. While we make every attempt to ensure your opinions are kept confidential, it is important to keep in mind that the National Security Agency does monitor the online activities of individual citizens, and these actions are beyond the study's control.
Stoycheff found that the people who said they thought government surveillance to be justified (around 70% of participants), and who said that they themselves had "nothing to hide," were the most likely to change their behavior after seeing the warning message. "Specifically," says the Atlantic's Kaveh Wadell, "these pro-surveillance Internet users tended to avoid sharing opinions that they believed were outside the mainstream."
Of the people who were strongly anti-surveillance, some expressed their opinions fully, and the rest said nothing at all. In no case did they modify their stated opinions. Stoycheff concludes that this group was unaffected by the warning message, because they had already decided where they stood in relation to being spied upon. She writes:
Although not directly measured, the individuals who comprise this group may very well be members of the avant-garde who are highly educated and vocal about their views regardless of circumstances, and individuals who are so turned off by surveillance that they are unwilling to ever share political beliefs online.
For the majority of participants, though, the reminder of government surveillance "significantly reduced the likelihood of speaking out in hostile opinion climates."
The conclusion is that if people know they're being watched online, then they hew to the majority opinion. This in turn prevents honest discussion of even mildly controversial topics.
Effectively, government surveillance stifles what might be one of the most important aspects of the Internetfree discourse without borders or other barriers, and (mostly) unlimited by external censorship. And the government has managed to suppress discussion and stifle dissent, all without any mention of violating free speech.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Mapping The Disturbingly High Rates Of Food Insecurity In America
description: America continues to have a lot of hungry people. Some statistics may have improved since the recession. But the nation's level of food insecuritydefined as lacking "access to enough food for an active, healthy life"hasn't got much better. In 2008, the rate jumped to 16% nationally, from 12% the year before. And it's still near that level15%, according to the latest figures.
A new report from the Feeding America food bank network maps where this food insecurity is greatest and least. It ranges from 38% in Jefferson County, Mississippi to about 4% in Loudoun County, Virginia, with the highest rates generally in the south and southeast.
"While unemployment has gone down to 5%, we're still finding that food insecurity is still at similar levels to the peak of the recession," says Diana Aviv, Feeding America's CEO. "Even people working full-time on minimum wages are not making enough money to cover all their living expenses."
Food insecurity isn't always directly related to poverty. It's also a function of whether people can access federal programs like SNAP (food stamps), Aviv says, and there are many places where eligible people don't have access. One food bank recently stopped taking stamps because it was told it could be sued if any recipient gave false information on an application. Other times, people won't access programs because they're too busy with work, or they need to be assisted through the application process.
The greatest number of food insecure people tend to be in urban counties, such as L.A. or New York. But, among counties with the highest food insecurity rates, rural areas account for more than half. The rural-poor face additional hurdles in transport and access to grocery stores, Aviv says.
The maps for child food insecurity (see here) show a more dispersed problem compared to the national ones. Overall, more than 15 million kids don't always have enough to eat. Mississippi has the highest rate, at 27%; North Dakota the lowest, at 11%. Apache County, Arizona, has the highest single county rate, at 42%.
Two counties in the top-10% for child food insecurityFresno and Imperial, in Californiaare also in the top 10% for agricultural salesa somewhat sickening contrast between abundance and scarcity.
Of course, there's no shortage of food to go around. We waste anything up to 40% of everything grown in this country. The question, as this report explored, is how to get more of it to the people who need it. Feeding America is working on itit just signed a big agreement with Starbucks, for instance, to divert its food to food banks. But more such partnerships are needed.
Cover Photo: Flickr user Thirteen Of Clubs
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: How Smart Cans Are Making Garbage Pickup Cheaper And Less Smelly
description: It's questionable whether some things really need to be connected to the Internet. We can probably do without Wi-Fi wine bottles and pregnancy kits. But putting a chip inside garbage cans is a good idea. Knowing when a container is full and needs emptying means more timely collection, and it means you can avoid emptying the cans when you don't need to empty them.
This is the proposition of Compology, a San Francisco startup. It makes a rugged sensor that takes a picture of a can's contents, which it then analyzes automatically. By making cans intelligent, it can optimize route-planning for collection trucks, and save haulers up to 40% of their normal costs, it says.
"Waste collection has been the using the same model [forever]," says co-founder Jason Gates. "You use the same schedule to pick up from the same containers every Wednesday, whether those containers are full or not. Waste companies have designed their business models to profit from picking up containers that are less than full. The most profitable container is one that's all air."
Compology offers a service model where it installs sensors and puts tablets in drivers' cabs, displaying route information. It works with commercial and industrial cans of between two and 40 cubic yards. It doesn't service residential customers, because there's less opportunity to change how pickups are done.
Gates started Compology in 2012 with his high school friend Ben Chehebar. They both had experience with the waste management business and saw a gap in the market for optimized collection. Most technology for the industry has focused on landfill management and recycling, Gates says. Compology's customers include private haulers (which Gates won't name) and the University of California, Santa Cruz.
"Waste collection is a very competitive, highly commoditized business," Gates says. "There's a race to the bottom on price and companies are always looking for a differentiator." It helps that cutting collections reduces truck pollution and traffic.
Compology's system distinguishes between different types of cans. So, for example, if a restaurant does most of its business at a weekend, the planner will call for a collection on a Friday even if the can is only half full. By contrast, if an office park can is half full on a Friday, it won't pick up until Monday because the can is unlikely to get any fuller before then.
Gates doesn't think residential cans will become smart the same way commercial ones have. But he does see an opportunity for haulers to give residential customers more information about how much garbage they're producing relative to their neighbors. That might encourage families to produce less waste, just like Opower informs people about their energy usage. Peer pressure is a wonderful thing, properly exploited.
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Driverless Buses Are Coming To Public-Transit-Phobic Beverly Hills
description: In Beverly Hills, like most of Southern California, people usually only take public transportation if they don't have another choice. But the city thinks that can change if public transportation is fundamentally redesignedand that's one reason it's planning to introduce a new network of self-driving electric shuttles.
The idea was sparked by a upcoming challenge: In about a decade, Beverly Hills will be getting two new stops on a local subway line that connects to downtown L.A. The city knew that there wouldn't be an easy way for many people to reach the subway; unlike some other subway stops, neither will have a park-and-ride lot for commuters to leave cars.
"I think my initial thought was that this would be a terrific solution to the first and last mile challenge," says John Mirisch, mayor of Beverly Hills. "But beyond that, it would provide point-to-point mobility to people in the citywhich could take a lot of cars off the streets. Of course, in any place in Southern California, that's a very good thing."
Flickr user Alan Light
In the new system, driverless shuttles will come on demand to riders, via an Uber-like app, using an algorithm to pick up other riders along the most convenient route.
"The problem with buses in the current transportation system that we have, at least in California, is that buses are really a second-class form of transportation," says Mirisch. "It's not a first choice for most people ... Our goal is not only to change technologically the way that transportation works, but to change the way that people look at public transit. We'd love to make it a first choice."
"Buses are really a second-class form of transportation."
Other cities have experimented with on-demand public transit, though none with the self-driving variety. In Helsinki, the city launched a popular service called Kutsuplus that worked in a similar way, as part of a bigger plan to begin to eliminate driving.
In Helsinki, the idea ran into challengeseven though people loved it, there wasn't quite enough ridership to keep it going. Shortly after a related (but very expensive) startup launched in San Francisco, it also failed. It isn't clear yet how similar programs will ultimately fare in cities such as Boston. But self-driving buses might make low ridership less of an issue, because they'll be cheaper to operate.
Beverly Hills thinks that it won't have to charge more for a ticket than a regular bus, so it should be accessible for the people who are currently using public transportation. It will just be more pleasant to use.
"Transportation's a very labor-intensive business, the way it works now," says Mirisch. "You can cut costs by using autonomous vehicles. I look at this as a true democratization of transportationif you get people, so to speak, at the same level that they all choose public transportation because it is the most convenient and best form of transportation."
Rather than waiting at a bus stop, the shuttles would come to a riderparticularly a bonus for the elderly or disabled. And because the route is automatically optimized, the ride isn't supposed to take as long as circling through a set route. At the same time, like other public transit, people wouldn't have to deal with paying attention to traffic or struggling to find parking.
Rather than waiting at a bus stop, the shuttles would come to a rider.
Because of the pace of development of autonomous vehicles, the city believes that the system can be in place before the new subway stops open in 2026. "People say, 'Oh, this is going to be something my grandkids can do," says Mirisch. "Well, this is going to be something we all will do, hopefully within the next couple of years. I know that's optimistic, but it will be here before any of us can imagine."
A couple of cities, such as the Swiss town of Sion, are actually experimenting with driverless shuttles now, although they will run on a standard route of stops, rather than sending shuttles to a particular person on demand.
Beverly Hills is hoping that its new on-demand, driverless system becomes a model for the surrounding regionand cities around the world. "Right now we're focused on designing a system that works for our city," Mirisch says. "But if it works here, it can work anywhere."
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 3-D Printed Cheese Is Just Another Step Toward The High-Tech Future Of Food
description: Soon you may be able to eat 3-D printed cheese, a finely engineered alternative to real cheese, with only selected ingredients included. And this "cheese," would not be made from plant-based proteins, but from real milk.
The printed cheese is part of research by food process engineer Maarten Schutyser, of the Wageningen University in the Netherlands, in collaboration with the FrieslandCampina dairy cooperative. The printer is loaded with sodium caseinate, a milk protein that exists as a liquid, and solidifies after being squirted out of the printer nozzle.
And so far, that's about it. The researchers need to add a lot more to the substance to make actual 3-D-printed cheese, and they have to work out how to actually print these ingredients individually, in order to make up a whole, cohesive food product.
SeDmi via Shutterstock
But the technique promises to allow the manufacture of highly specialized foods. One example given is a cheese that is engineered to contain lots of protein, but little fat (although the fat in cheese and butter isn't really bad for you at all).
If this seems like a clever idea in search of a practical application, that's because it it. Schutyser told Takepart's Tove Danovich that "The biggest overall challenge is developing 'an attractive 3-D-printed food that has an added value over existing foods.'" That is, even with tweaked fat levels, or other differences, the 3-D printed cheese doesn't really have any advantages over the real thing.
In terms of consumer acceptance, 3-D printed foodstuffs might not have a hard time at all. After all, it's just another manufacturing process.
However, this is science, not product development, and the knowledge and techniques developed by printing real, natural foodstuffs will be essential for future products, allowing Schutyser and his team to collaborate on all kinds of other products. The manufacturers, then, would come up with neat foodstuffs, and Schutyser's team can help them "work within [the] boundaries when creating foods."
The processes could also be used to make things like cheese from plant-based proteins. Given how bad most vegan cheese is, this could actually be the project's biggest win. Schutyser says that "he and his colleagues plan to explore 3-D-printing plant proteins in the near future," although "sadly the final product may not be plant-based 'dairy' items," says Danovich.
In terms of consumer acceptance, 3-D printed foodstuffs might not have a hard time at all. After all, it's just another manufacturing process, and we're certainly not shy about eating foodstuffs that have been pummeled by factories into all kinds of odd shapes, from spam, to ice-cream that never melts, to veggie hot dogs containing meat and human DNA. Is printing food up from individual proteins really that different from the beautiful and hypnotic process of making a Vienetta ice-cream cake?
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 5 Ways Marijuana Will Change As It Becomes A Mainstream Product
description: The mainstreaming of marijuana is well underway. You can see it in the Keurig-type vape pods, the lifestyle brands, and the handbags. You can see it in how people talk about it openly, and how strong majorities want it legalized.
"In many ways, our morality about marijuana is outpacing legislation."
And you can see it in actual legislation: 23 states and the District of Columbia already have some form of legality, and four statesCalifornia, Nevada, Arizona, and Massachusettscould open the doors to recreational use this November.
Marijuana is losing its grungy, pothead, "gateway drug" reputation and becoming something more modern, artisanal, and premium, according to a new survey from Sparks & Honey, a trend-tracking agency, and High Times magazine.
"In many ways, our morality about marijuana is outpacing legislation," says Sean Mahoney, S&H's editorial director. "It's an interesting time to see how culture is changing because of the changing views of marijuana, but also how culture is changing marijuana. It goes in both directions."
Based on a survey of 1,000 people in states that have legalized pot (all had tried weed in the last five years), the report looks at how weed is coming out of the closet and how different groups view the drug. For example, men are more likely to use the term "marijuana" when discussing food (as in the recipes in this cookbook). Women are more likely to refer to "cannabis," which has a more wholesome connotation than weed, ganja, or kush. More than 50% of people want to buy cannabis at the grocery store (good luck with that). And people interested in religion were quite likely to talk about marijuana online (18% of those according the survey)certainly more than people working in religion.
Here are some trends the report sees expanding and deepening:
Flickr user erocsid
New packaging
Cannabis will be packaged in easier-to-consume wayswhether it's pre-dosed, or paired with other products like wine. "Cannabis-infused food products will create a new expectation of product labeling, alongside calorie and carb counts. Expect clear cannabis dosage and ingredient information," the report says.
Flickr user erocsid
Origin is important
We'll see more marketing of cannabis based on provenanceas in other types of foodand its specific mood properties. "In the future, we'll see even more attention paid to the process of cultivating marijuana, and passing on a sense of provenance to the consumer," the report says. "We will see more innovation around ways for consumers to ingest curated doses of cannabis, with an optimum mood state in mind."
ChameleonsEye via Shutterstock
Weed is not a drug
Cannabis will go from being a drug that gets you high to being something that offers "relief" and "wellness." "While regulated by strict laws, weed is an ingredient that is shedding its old skin and becoming part of a wellness movement," the report says. "The way we think of using cannabis-infused products [is] also changing. . . . Cannabis-infused wellness items could be the next tea tree oil or aloe vera."
Steve Hubbard via Shutterstock
Weed's aesthetic
Weed will change everyday design and even remake public spaces. "Marijuana is evolving from bean bag to Eames chair. Some call it the Whole Foods-ification of marijuana, or the coffee shop effect," the report says. Bars, restaurants, concert halls, and amusement parks will begin to incorporate "universal design language of cannabis," just like the language of alcohol pervades today. "It's not about putting pot leafs on T-shirts. It's about incorporating it into our day-to-day," Mahoney says.
Leafs by Snoop
Weed gets endorsements
"Marijuana is evolving from bean bag to Eames chair."
Consumer-facing brands use celebrities to sell their products. Weed will be no different. Baltimore Ravens lineman Eugene Monroe already supports cannabis research. Snoop Dogg and Whoopi Goldberg have weed companies. The report expects "further [endorsements from] sportsmen and marijuana partnerships, particularly in regions where marijuana is legalized and local athletes are leveraged as mainstream mouthpieces."
In other words, weed will go from being a thing grown and marketed amateurishly to being a product sold professionally and creatively by marketing agencies like Sparks & Honey (how convenient). Even if some legal restrictions remain, the public's acceptance of weed will see those barriers come down, Mahoney believes. "Where there's obstruction and confusion, there is a resilient, crafty, and quite advanced group of people who are pushing this industry forward. They're going to find ways to solve any problems," he says.
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: These Are The 10 Best Sustainable Buildings Of 2016
description: Every year, the American Institute of Architects Committee on the Environment scours the country for the best new green buildingswhich, as they point out in a new report, can be built for the same amount or even less than standard architecture. They just happen to be much better at saving energy and waterand nicer to work inside, thanks to better light, materials, and cleaner air. Here are the 10 that won this year.
Biosciences Research Building (BRB), Galway, Ireland
Payette and Reddy Architecture + Urbanism
Research labs running high-intensity equipment usually use a lot of energy, both for machines and for heating and cooling. But a new research center in Irelanda country with a moderate climatealmost never has to turn on the heat or A/C. The labs are in the center of the building, with offices and writing desks around the edge, where it's possible to open the windows instead of using mechanical ventilation. The corridors around the perimeter act like a "thermal sweater" for the interior, while heat from the highest-energy labs is redirected to help keep nearby writing desks warm on cold days.
Center for Sustainable Landscapes (CSL), Pittsburgh
The Design Alliance Architects
When architects designed the new home for this nonprofit, they were aiming to make the greenest building in the world. The center, built on a brownfield in Pittsburgh, runs completely on renewable energy; in 2015, it produced more solar and wind power than it used. It's also "net-zero water"all of the wastewater produced on site is cleaned and filtered with plants, and reused to flush toilets. Rain is captured in a 60,000-gallon rain tank. Most of the time, there's enough daylight that no one has to turn on the lights; everyone has a view of nature outside, where the center runs a public garden.
Exploratorium at Pier 15, San Francisco
EHDD
When San Francisco's Exploratorium moved to its new space in the city's downtown, it decided not to include any parking for the million visitors it gets every year. Sitting on a pier, the building is able to use the San Francisco Bay for heating and coolingthe water flows into a heat exchanger. The museum uses less than half the energy of comparable buildings, and the roof is covered in solar panels to help power exhibits. Monitors display energy use in real time, so staff can continuously tweak operations to improve performance. This year, the building expects to meet its goal of net-zero energy use.
HEB at Mueller, Austin
Lake|Flato Architects, H-E-B Design + Construction, Selser Schaefer Architects
While the typical supermarket uses more energy per square foot than any other type of commercial building, this new store in Austin uses 64% less than the average grocery. Solar panels power the store's lights. Seasonal temperature and humidity sensors connect the store to conditions outsideso people aren't freezing next to refrigerators in the summertime, and the whole store can save energy. The store is the first in the country to use fridges that run on propane, using 95% less refrigerant than usual.
Jacobs Institute for Design Innovation, Berkeley, Calif.
Leddy Maytum Stacy Architects
A new center focused on sustainable urban design at the University of California-Berkeley, under construction on a former volleyball court, squeezes design studios, project rooms, and maker spaces into a tiny site. The center reuses hot and cold water from the next-door building for heating and cooling, and solar panels on the roof cover more than half of the building's energy needs. Outside, a high-performance faade shades the building and keeps it cool.
Rene Cazenave Apartments, San Francisco
Leddy Maytum Stacy Architects and Saida + Sullivan Design Partners, Associated Architect
A parking lot and freeway off-ramp in San Francisco are turning into affordable mini-studio apartments for former chronically homeless people. Despite a small budget, the architects squeezed in several sustainable features. The building uses filtered fresh air instead of air conditioning, thanks to the city's mild climate. Solar hot water panels help provide hot water, while solar panels on the roof help power apartments. The design will lead residents past a passageway filled with support staff every time they walk to their apartments.
The Dixon Water Foundation Josey PavilionCasey Dunn
The Dixon Water Foundation Josey Pavilion, Decatur, Texas
Lake|Flato Architects
This beautiful building, designed for an educational center that shows how livestock can help restore prairies and watersheds, has walls that fold and unfold based on the weather each day. It uses no mechanical heating or cooling, and its solar panels produce more power than it uses. Rainwater is collected from the roof, and a constructed wetland, instead of a septic system, cleans and filters all of the water used in the building. The structure uses local, low-carbon materials like pine.
The J. Craig Venter Institute, San Diego
ZGF Architects LLP
At this net-zero energy genomics lab, a huge solar array on the roof produces more energy than the building uses. A thermal energy storage system helps heat and cool the building with little outside energy. Tanks store rainwater, using it to flush toilets and in a cooling tower. In the future, the building will connect to city pipes for reclaimed water. Plus, the workspaces have views of an ecological reserve and the ocean.
University of WyomingVisual Arts Facility, Laramie, Wyoming
Hacker Architects and Malone Belton Able PC
Since working in art studios often means dealing with toxic materials, this university art building uses natural ventilation and Wyoming's seasonal windsalong with 15 other ventilation typesto keep the air fresh. Sediment traps on studio sinks keep paint and other chemicals out of wastewater. Automatic daylight sensors keep the lights off when possible. The building, like others on campus, is made from stone quarried nearby.
West Branch of the Berkeley Public Library, Berkeley, Calif.
Harley Ellis Devereaux
This is the first public library in California to be certified as a Living Building Challenge net-zero energy building. A wind chimney provides fresh air without bringing in noise from the busy street outside. Solar panels provide energy, and solar thermal panels help provide radiant heating, cooling, and hot water. Windows keep the space naturally lit for reading.
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 9 Cinco de Mayo Recipes to Take Your Fiesta to the Next Level
description: Why have plain ol' margaritas when you can have strawberry margarita Jello shots? That's rightthese festive recipes kick Cinco de Mayo classics up a notch. From margarita donuts to Mexican sweet potato cheese fries, wow your guests (or completely steal the show at any potluck) with these super-creative spins.
DrinksPhoto: Red Alert Live1. Strawberry Margarita Jello Shots
We can speak from experience: We made these once, and they were a huge hit. Honestly, what's not to love about mini margarita shots in a candy-sweet strawberry? Just be careful not to scoop out too much. You might accidently cut a hole in the bottom, and your liquid Jello will spill out before it can chill.Photo: My Crazy Good Life2. Beer Margaritas
Searching for another festive drink that's not your typical margarita? Try this one. The recipe is not quite as sweet (as stated above), but it still packs a lime-filled, boozy punch.
FoodPhoto: The Comfort of Cooking3. Guacamole Deviled Eggs
These deviled eggs are basically hard-boiled eggs + guac. But for a party, the presentation makes them not only beautiful but also easy to eat (almost too easy).Photo: Peas and Crayons4. Loaded Mexican Sweet Potato Cheese Fries
Hello, scrumptious. Combine sweet potato fries and cheese fries and all the goodness of Mexican fixin's and, voilyou have this glorious dish. Bonus: They'll only take you 25 minutes to throw together.Photo: Gimme Some Oven5. Chicken Enchilada Cups
These perfectly portioned enchiladas are waiting to satisfy partygoers everywhere. Ditch the messy, plate-filled kind for these adorable appetizers that will fill you up if you're not careful.Photo: Heather Christo6. Shrimp Ceviche Stuffed Avocados
If the thought of fixing ceviche is intimidating, don't sweat it. Just 25 minutes of prep is all it will take for you to pull these guys together. Simply serve with chips and margaritas.Photo: Pinch of Yum7. Queso Stuffed Poblanos
If you're in charge of providing a dish with a bit more substance, make these rice- and cheese-filled poblano peppers your go-to. The stuffing is loaded with veggiestomato sauce, onions, and mushroomsbut no meat, making it vegetarian friendly.
SweetsPhoto: Bubble Girl Bakes8. Margarita Donuts
Time for dessert! These donuts take just 22 minutes to make, and the glaze takes just 5 minutes. Not only that, but they are egg- and dairy-free. (In place of egg, the recipe calls for water and flaxseed.)Photo: Host the Toast9. Creamy Margarita Popsicles
Cocktail popsicles, people. Yes, there's tequila in these! They're well worth the prep, but they do have to freeze for at least 6 hours. Just make them the night before and stick them in the freezer overnight.
This article was written by Heidi Pashman from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Is It Better to Lift Heavier Weights or Do More Reps?
description: Anyone who hits the weight room regularly will inevitably face the question: Should you add more weight and do less repetitions or use a lighter weight and do more reps?
The debate has raged on for as long as people have argued over cake versus pie (the answer is pie, obviously), but its not quite that simple.
The truth behind weight versus reps lies somewhere in between, but to paint a clearer picture, you have to understand why we ask this question in the first place.
A Worthy Villain: The Fitness Plateau
Once youve been following a fitness program for a while, youll eventually hit a fitness plateauthat dreaded no-mans land where your body adapts to your routine, and you no longer make progress. It sucks, but its normal, and it happens to everyone.
One way to bust through the plateau is simply to change things up. This is where lifting heavier weights, adding more reps, or doing both (called a double progression) can shake up sleepy progress.
The Case for Heavier WeightsWhen you pile on the pounds, you typically lift on the lower end of reps (as few as 1-5 for some people). That doesnt sound like much, but by doing so, youre increasing your overall maximum strength and greatly improving your ability to lift heavier weights.
Most of that newfound superhero strength is because youre improving your efficiency at a given exercise. Think of how your bank account grows when you minimize unnecessary spending. It's like that, and the more you practice restraint with a budget, the easier it is to save.
Lifting heavy weights feels awesome, but its easy to get sucked into chasing the numbers and running into a wall. Eventually, youll reach a point where you simply cant add any more weight, and if you push it, you could compromise your form and put yourself at risk for injury.
If you've increased your weight and now your form is breaking down, its best to drop the weight and then increase the number of reps you're performing, says Tanner Baze, a certified personal trainer.
Which brings us to...
The Case for More Reps
When you lift lighter weights for more reps, you are still getting stronger, just in a different way. Youre developing muscular endurance, or your ability to exert a certain amount of effort before you fatigue. Sure enough, doing more work (more sets and reps, more workouts, more overall bad-assery), will help you get stronger in the long run. Busting out more reps is also a challenging workout at a high-intensity level, which burns major calories and has a greater afterburn effect.
Plus, when you hit a plateau, adding reps instead of heaving more weight allows you to focus on proper technique and form and still leaves room for additional changes to your program, if necessary.
The upside of maintaining tip-top form is you end up really working the muscle as intended, not relying on a bunch of compensatory patterns (for example, letting your quads do all the work when your glutes are too weak) or potentially hurting yourself. One downside to this technique is that it may make your workouts slightly longer, as youll spend more time doing more reps.
Why Not Just Do Both?
Confusion about lifting heavier weights or doing more reps still lingers in the weight room because weightlifting and its effects on our bodies are often misunderstood, Baze says. Hint: It involves a lot more than lifting super-heavy weight or banging out more reps in isolation.
You need a combination of muscle damage (that hurts-so-good soreness after a great workout), mechanical tension (the sheer strain of lifting something heavy), and metabolic stress (that burn you feel from your muscle really working). Both heavy-weight and high-rep training check those three boxes and will ultimately build strength. Plus, both methods require proper form, because without good technique, it doesn't matter how much weight or how many reps you do, you could be risking injury.
If your goal is just to generally get stronger and more fit, choose one or the other, says Nathan Jones, a doctor of physical therapy student and strongman competitor.
For long-term progress and to keep things interesting, you can incorporate both heavy-weight, low-rep training and light-weight, high-rep training by switching up the sets and reps on different days or weeks (a technique known as periodization). If youve been doing 5 sets of 5 squats and cant add weight or get an extra rep, drop the weight and go to 5 sets of 8, or add weight and go to 3 sets of 5, Jones says. Basically, imagine your sets and reps as a wavelength continuously going up and down.
Theres nothing inherently magical about changing things up this way. Personally, I think it's more psychological than anything, Jones says. Doing the same rep range every single time you lift gets boring. So doing something different helps you maintain motivation, and subsequently, keeps your effort high.
The Takeaway
There is no wrong decision here, Jones says. When you lift more weight, add more reps, or do both appropriately with good form while keeping effort high, youre nudging your body toward continually improved fitness and strength.
That said, when you add weight or make changes, do so in small increments. Your goal is to squeeze big results from little changes. It also helps to include a proper warm-up and cool-down.
The single most important factor in your progress is your willingness to work hard and exert high effort, Jones says. So long as youre doing more of something over time, you will get stronger.
Mixing it up just a teeny bit to keep yourself motivated and to see progresswhatever your goalwill go a long way.
This article was written by Stephanie Lee from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Ad Uses Male Nipples to Show How to Do a Breast Self-Exam
description: Breast self-exams are an important first line of defense against breast cancer, but showing exactly how to conduct one is difficult when female nipples are censored on most social networks. So an Argentinian organization came up with a clever way around the rules: using male nipples. Not only is the resulting video, titled #ManBoobs4Boobs, extremely helpful, but it's also a good reminder that men too can develop breast cancerand a not-so-subtle dig at social media's double standards.
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Why We Love to Scare Ourselves
description: It turns out there is a biological reason people enjoy watching scary movies. According to this video from TED-Ed, fear sparks our fight or flight response, which elevates our energy levels and decreases pain and critical thought. It's the same feeling you get when you're excited, happy, or even having sex.
While the amount of terror people can handle varies, our response is the same: We get a self-esteem boost for pushing through and overcoming our fears. Your brain can even mimic the emotions of others, making you feel closer to the people you're with. So maybe a scary movie or amusement park isnt the worst idea for your next date.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Strong El Nio Helped Lower U.S. Heating Costs
description: Was your heating bill a bit friendlier to your wallet this winter? If so, theres a good chance you can thank El Nio.
The exceptionally strong El Nio in the Pacific has been driving chaotic weather across the globe for months, but it also contributed to a mild winter in the U.S., which was about 15 percent warmer than the winter of 2014-2015.
Trees are festively lit in Manhattan, but no snow is to be found on an unseasonably warm winter night in January.
Credit: Deb Nystrom/flickr
The milder temperatures led people to use less energy to heat their homes compared to the previous winter, a new U.S. Department of Energy report shows. Above normal temperatures contributed to a 16 percent drop in demand for propane used for heating, a 45 percent drop in heating oil consumption and a 6 percent decrease in electricity consumption compared to the winter of 2014-2015.
Heating demand nationwide declined as much as 27 percent in December compared to the average of the previous 10 winters as measured in heating degree days, a measure of how much utility bills increase as a result of the weather, according to the report.
{related}
Though heating demand in January matched the 10-year average, February demand was 17 percent below normal and March was 26 percent below normal.
Slade Johnson, an analyst for the U.S. Energy Information Administration, said its too early to know if such a dramatic fall in energy demand for home heating has been seen before until at least late spring when the nations heating season has passed.
The El Nio event is still occurring, although it is expected to dissipate by late spring or early summer, Johnson said.
Credit: EIA
The energy used for home heating is a contributor to climate change because of its use of natural gas, oil and electricity. Home heating accounts for about 63 percent of residential natural gas consumption, for example.
Heating oil is often used in place of natural gas and electricity in the northeast. Heating oil is a highly-polluting crude oil product that emits about the same amount of carbon dioxide as diesel fuel less than coal but more than gasoline.
About half of all households in the U.S. heat their homes with natural gas, the cleanest fossil fuel used for home heating, which emits roughly half the carbon dioxide as coal.
It wont be possible to know the exact effect that El Nio had on U.S. greenhouse gas emissions from energy use this winter until the final numbers are tallied later this year, but emissions from U.S. energy consumption were down by 2.5 percent in 2015 compared to the previous year, EIA analyst Perry Lindstrom said.
Some of that was because of the warmer heating season especially at the end of the year, he said. The other emissions effect is that, as a result of the above, natural gas prices were low and natural gas pushed out coal in electricity generation
{like}
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Makeup Tutorial Shows What It's Like to Cover Up Depression
description: YouTube personality Amy Geliebter's new makeup tutorial is much more than a vlogger how-to. In it, Geliebter applies concealer in the shade Denial and Emotional Repression and lipstick in the shade Just Smile More in order to demonstrate just how exhausting it can be to hide depression from the outside world. While it's definitely tongue in cheek, she makes a powerful point about the stigmas that surround mental illness.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Quake-Proof Japanese Building Uses A Net Of Rods To Prevent Shaking
description: When recent earthquakes rocked southern Japan, the city of Nomi, around 200 miles west of Tokyo, didn't feel the tremors. But earthquakes are so common in Japanmore than 800 smaller quakes have been recorded in the last yearthat it's only a matter of time before something bigger hits Nomi. One building there has prepared by wrapping itself in noodle-like carbon fiber rods.
The buildingan office and lab for a textile manufacturerneeded to be stronger in the case of a quake. Rather than tearing the old building down and building something new from scratch, the company decided to pioneer a new type of reinforcement, with a new carbon material designed in collaboration with architect Kengo Kuma.
The carbon rods are stronger, lighter, and more flexible than metal, so if the building shakes, the rods can hold it in place. They're also interesting to look at, while not completely blocking the view. "It's not visually obvious," Kuma says in a video. "Using this material makes for transparent quake resistance. It's also ideal for securing a freedom of space and light while being anti-seismic."
The textile company started developing the technology six years ago, but it was only recently that the rodswhich have a carbon fiber in the middle, synthetic fiber around the outside, and a coating of thermoplastic resinwere ready for use.
Through digital modeling, the architecture and engineering teams figured out how to place the rods to hold the building together. Inside, a criss-crossing knit of rods strengthens windows and walls. Outside, rods attached to the roof help prevent horizontal shaking.
"It's something that we dreamed of, but were unable to accomplish until now," says Kuma.
All Images: Takumi Ota
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Cigarette Smokers Are In Denial About Their Butts
description: A new survey digs into what smokers think about their butts. The survey was commissioned by V2, an electronic cigarette company, so you may want to take the results with a puff of smoke, but the results are certainly interesting and give some insight into a littering problem that sees 1.7 billion pounds of cigarette butts discarded every year.
Smokers were asked first how they dispose of their butts and then what damage, if any, they thought the discarded butts did to the environment. When asked if they agreed with the statement that "cigarette butts are toxic," 84% of respondents said yes, they did. Despite the irony of smokers voluntarily sucking on tobacco smoke while they consider the toxicity of the leftovers, this is an important point. According to a 2011 study published in the BMJ's journal Tobacco Control, 4.5 trillion butts are tossed every year, worldwide, and they are indeed toxic. The LC50 (lethal concentration that kills 50% of animals in tests) is as little as five butts per liter of water.
Cigarette butts are the most common form of litter in the world, as approximately 5.6 trillion cigarettes are smoked every year worldwide. Cigarette waste constitutes an estimated 30% of the total litter (by count) on US shorelines, waterways and on land (LitterFreePlanet, 2009). In fact, cigarette butts are the most common debris item collected along waterways during the Ocean Conservancy's yearly International Coastal Cleanup.
Next up, 44% of the 872 respondents said that butts are biodegradable. They're not, because they contain plastics, but the perception is there. "The core of the butt can take anywhere from 18 months to 10 years to decompose," says the National Geographic's Brian Clark Howard. "During that time, the cigarette filters are full of tar, nicotine, and other toxins that can leach into the ground, potentially affecting any organism that comes into contact with them."
Armed with this knowledge, the fact that almost half of smokers thinking that butts are biodegradable is worrying. This misconception might have some role in the next statistic: 25% of smokers throw their butts in the ground, and of these, 62% do it "every time." That is, 15.5% of all smokers toss every butt they smoke on the ground. Many said there weren't cigarette receptacles nearby and some were afraid of starting a fire.
PozitivStudija via Shutterstock
At the same time, 79% of respondents agree that dropping cigarette butts counts as littering. That they drop them despite this shows that they're either callous monsters, or that they just don't think a little butt will do that much harm. This is a perfect example of how we trivialize our own actions, forgetting that they add up across the billions of people on the planet. It's what makes people think it's okay to run the faucet for a couple minutes while they brush their teeth, or to tumble-dry a load of laundry on a sunny day, or to drink bottled water.
The combined effects of cigarette butts are huge. Those 1.69 billion pounds of discarded butts make their way into waterways, and into the oceans, from where they poison marine life, and are washed back onto beaches.
The problem could get worse. The global consumption of manufactured filtered cigarettes currently stands at 5.6 trillion, and is expected to rise to nine trillion by 2025.
But electronic cigarettes aren't the answer either. Those things are like K-Cups for nicotine. There are recycling programs in place, but are vapers any more likely than smokers to dispose of their leftovers responsibly? Plus, those discarded cartridges are themselves made from plastic, and loaded with traces of similarly nasty residues. Perhaps publicizing the results of this survey wasn't such a great idea from V2 after all.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: How Shame Over My Psoriasis Led to a Body Im Proud Of
description: Before my insecurities started, I was just a young tow-headed, blue-eyed boy in elementary school, strategizing a game plan to dominate dodgeball come recess. After, I was that same boy, but I spent all of my time concocting stories to hide my secret from the world for just one more day.
My secret: I have psoriasis.
"That redness at the edge of my scalp? That's just irritation from my football helmet."
"Those white flakes nestled in my hair? Just hair gel that I didn't blend in well enough."
"Diving in the pool with my t-shirt still on? I was just so excited I dove straight in."
The Diagnosis
The memory of my very first dermatologist appointment is still clear as day. Sitting on the cold table with my mom by my side, I anxiously anticipated the doctor's arrival. I was already nervous about the rash that had taken my body hostage, and my apprehension was growing by the second. I survived a thorough inspection of my back and scalp, but my worst nightmare became a reality with one single question.
"Are there any other areas of your body affected?"
Gesturing her hand toward my groin, my mother exposed the final area this sudden outbreak was affecting.My head collapsed with embarrassment. My cheeks flushed with angst. My heart fluttered with fear. My hands clenched tighter than ever before around the waistband of my athletic shorts. With complete certainty, I shook my head in blatant disapproval at the doctor's request to examine what every child that age considers absolutely private. My mother shifted back and forth from sincere pleas to stern demands, but I continued to hold out as best I could.
The doctor, however, committed to finishing her evaluation and providing her diagnosis. Closing my eyes through the examination, I pulled my pants back up as fast as humanly possible and stared blankly at the wall behind her.
Want to know the kicker? After that entire ordeal, she didn't even diagnosis my condition correctly. "It's just eczema," she said. "Very common in younger children." That day was the first time I ever felt violated. Ever felt a lack of control. Ever felt truly ashamed in my own skin.
Seventy miles from home, my psoriasis was officially diagnosed at a top medical facility, Yale New Haven Dermatology.
Medically speaking, psoriasis is pretty cut and dry: "Psoriasis is a chronic inflammatory skin disease that is caused by an overactive immune system. This causes the body to grow skin cells up to ten times faster than normal. Instead of shedding, these skin cells pile up on top of each other and form red, raised patches of skin, called plaques." It doesn't cause dire health risks or change the way you can live your lifemedically speaking. Psychologically speaking, psoriasis can alter your life instantly.
I Felt Different
Leaving the doctor's office with a prescription and a handful of sample medication, I felt the first glimmer of hope since feeling that first plaque atop the crown of my head.
But applying that medication did more harm than good. It entailed liberally applying a thick, greasy oil onto my hair and scalp. Not to mention, the smell resembled Skippy peanut butter. It also came with a shower cap to avoid ruining anything in my house. Even though the cap was tight, leaving a bright red mark across my forehead for hours, the oil would still somehow find its way out and stream down the sides of my face. In order to watch TV with the family, I had to place bath towels across the couch as a second wall of defense against stains. Before bed, I lined my sheets and pillows with more towels, because sometimes the cap would come off and completely ruin them.
I knew for a fact none of my friends were at home doing this. Just me. I must have done something to deserve this. Slowly but surely, I started avoiding the medication. I loathed being even more different than I already was. But my mother would remind me to put it on every day. I resented her for even bringing it up. I wish she would just ignore it. Like I tried to do.
I Hid Myself
The excuses I was creating to hide my psoriasis began to hide the person I truly was. I began to develop a facade. An alter ego.
Outside of my closest friends and family (to whom I showed my lively and gregarious personality), I became an introvert. Making new friends terrified me. I was more content sticking close by friends from preschool, the ones who already accepted me.
It got to the point where I would wear a wet suit at the beach just to cover up my condition. My friends were social butterflies, though, and soon enough our weekly hangouts doubled in size. I became accustomed to changing my lifestyle to hide my psoriasis. I wore jeans as long as possible to cover my shins; altered my hairstyle, mastering how to swiftly brush away the "dandruff" I left behind on couches and pillows without anyone seeing; and never took off my shoes or socks to hide the psoriasis affecting my toenails.This strategy wasn't a solution to my problems, but rather a Band-Aid to cover the wound. It allowed me to temporarily cope with my pain. Unfortunately, it didn't stick for very long.
When I used to argue with my mom over that greasy medicine, she would attempt an array of tactics to persuade me to put it on. Although her intentions were always pure and heartfelt, one of her pleas stuck with me.
"C'mon, Ry, put on your medicine. What are you going to do when a girl puts her fingers through your hair."
The thought alone was enough for me never want to experience it. I convinced myself that a girl would never be attracted to me. In my eyes, I was disgusting.
Instead, my focus turned solely to sports.
Football
Football became my escape. My sanctuary. A safe haven. On the field, no one cared about your looks or personal faults. On the field, you were judged solely on your talent. It was neither a popularity contest nor a beauty pageant; it was merely a collection of work ethic, determination, drive, and passion.I wasn't judged on my appearance, just my performance. (That's me, #56.)More importantly, football is the embodiment of a team sport. Together, you are eleven brothers banding together in an attempt to successfully complete a specific task every play. Win enough plays, and your team wins the game. My team became my identity.
Behind my face mask, I was able to become the truest form of myself. My shoulder pads served as my armor. My uniform declared my allegiance to a greater cause. Strapping up my equipment every day was my metamorphosis; I became more and more impenetrable with every piece of armor.
Football carried me directly into high schoolas long as I was successful on the field, I could ignore the problems I faced off of it. Walking into the locker room for the first day of freshman football practice, I had high expectations for the season to come.
Except things never go according to plan.
My expectations and dreams were shattered quicker than my sprint out onto the dry practice field. Lining up into our prospective positions, I realized this was no longer Pop Warner football. Weight limits no longer predetermined your division or team; now it was every man for himself, regardless of size.
My competition for the starting spot was 6-foot-3, 230 pounds, and one strong son of a bitch. I, on the other hand, was barely 5-foot-4 on a good day, weighed a soft 150 pounds, and couldn't even bench press 135 for a single.
Once again, the situation was beyond my control. Or was it? It was time for me to take my life into my own hands.
Getting Stronger
I always referred to Tony as my uncle. He was an intimidating man, sporting a thick mustache, crew cut, and bold tattoos. It was his physical prowess that caught my attention the most. Tony was the epitome of muscle. The definition of fitness. A true representation of strength.
His expertise was exactly what I needed.
Working up the courage to ask him to take me under his wing was one the hardest things I had done up until that point. With a tremble in the back of my throat, I mustered the words just faintly enough for him to hear me. "Hey, Tony. I want to get bigger for football, so I can start varsity next year. Can you help me?"
Tony was reluctant; he had been asked this countless times before. He took his training sessions seriously and wasn't keen on yet another young kid wasting his time.
Being such longtime friends of my parents, however, he agreed to let me train with him if I agreed to three conditions:
Show up every single day ready to bust my ass. He refused to let me slow him down.
Purchase a brand new pair of shoes to permanently take residence in his basement.
Smile and have fun. In order to be successful, I had to enjoy the process.
Determined to live up to Tony's standards, I showed up ready to give him every single ounce of work ethic I had. He stood behind me every step of the wayevery rep, every set, every success, every failure. He was a booming voice that told me keep going when I was ready to stop. He would push me to my breaking point, then would offer his hand to pick me up.
I was working harder than I ever worked in my entire life. I saw the weight on the scale rising, but I still wasn't seeing that drastic change I was desperately seeking. Disappointed, I expressed my frustration, asking naively, "How come I'm not as big as him yet?" pointing to the cover model on an issue of Muscle & Fitness in the corner.
Tony's answer: "If it was easy, then everybody would do it."
The words resonated with me, but secretly I remained frustrated. With every achievement and success in Tony's basement, I was reminded of my psoriasis. A new personal best on the bench press was humbled by the flakes left behind on the dark leather. A set of heavy squats would pull and stretch the plaques along my obliques, causing an enormous amount of pain. No matter how hard I trained, I was always reminded that it still controlled me.
My TransformationThe hard work didn't just make a me a starter. It made me a varsity captain.As the season approached, team meetings kicked off. Walking down into the locker room for the first time in about a year, I shook the hands of my coaches. "What in the world did you do?" they asked. With sweaty palms and a racing heartbeat, I asked, "What do you mean?"
"You've gotten huge. What have you been doing?"
Softly chuckling, I finally swallowed the knot in my throat, and my heart rate returned to normal.
"Just training really hard coach. I'm ready for this year."
A few weeks later, during our preseason performance testing, I blew it out of the water. I had noticeably put on the most strength during the offseason.
My hard work continued to pay out dividends in success. That season, as our team ran onto the field for our season opener underneath those immortal Friday Night Lights, I was a starter. While the success on the field was paramount to me, it was the result I was least expecting that made all the difference.
What I Least Expected
When I first started training, I was there for a single purpose: football. To simply become bigger, faster, and stronger. It's all I needed or wanted. So I thought.
Taking a big step back and looking at my life after I changed physically, I realized there was another part of me that was different. Slowly, I was gaining confidence and crafting my own identity. I was rediscovering that young, outgoing boy.
Sure, I still had a long way to go. I was still unwilling to pursue girls romantically. I still avoided being the center of any social gathering. I still struggled with myself when I saw my psoriasis in the mirror. I still got dispirited feeling the hard, scaly plaques across my obliques. Psoriasis still sucked. Except instead of trying to ignore it, I began learning how to look past it.
Training develops more than just desirable abs or an appealing pair of arms. It develops your mind to perceive the things you never before thought possible.
Training develops more than just desirable abs or an appealing pair of arms. It develops your mind to perceive the things you never before thought possible. It teaches you the power your mind truly possesses. Every time you do one more rep than anticipated, you get a touch stronger. Every time you add one more pound to the bar, you break past a mental barrier. Training teaches you that if you want something, you need to go out and fight for every inch of it. Training teaches you to appreciate your body and the ability you have to change it.
This article is not about my actual psoriasis, but rather the impact it had on me. Change out psoriasis for anything else: bad acne, rosacea, vitiligo, obesity, depression
The fact of the matter is we all have battled something. Each and every single one of us has had to deal with something that has made us feel different, or feel insecure and doubt ourselves. Each of us has felt the pain of something thats out of our control. In the end, it is these differences that make us unique. It's what builds our character and creates our stories.
This article is about finding solace. It's about learning to control the things you can to overcome the things you cannot. For so long, I focused on the wrong things. I was obsessed with finding a cure for my condition. Topical medications, shots underneath my finger and toenails, UV-B tanning beds, holistic medicine, acupuncture, dietary changes, immune-suppressant shots. You name it, I tried it.What I should have been focusing on were the positive things in my life. The amazing family I have always had. The genuine friendships I have made, past and present. The love I have shared. The lives I have touched by training. The blessings I have received in every aspect of my life.
The truth is nobody was staring at my psoriasis and thinking that I was disgusting. That was just my own insecurities and negativity feeding my brain. Now whenever someone asks me, What's that redness on your scalp?" I don't shrug my shoulders and try to change the subject. I just say, "Oh, I have psoriasis." Then they say something along the lines of, Oh, I didn't know. Sorry, dude. And the conversation is over. They don't look at me differently or flare their nostrils in disgust. We simply move on.
I realize now that without my psoriasis, I wouldn't be the person I am today. I may never have found football. I may never have gotten to know Tony as well as I did. He may never have become my mentor and the most impactful figure in my life. I may never have found my calling to become a personal trainer.
Psoriasis was my darkness, but it was also my saving grace. Without the darkness, the light would be blinding. It is because of the darkness that once the light became visible, I could welcome it with open arms.
This post originally appeared on Sons of Strength and was republished with the author's permission. Ryan Johnson is a personal trainer. The views expressed herein are his. Follow him on Twitter.
This article was written by RYAN JOHNSON from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: What to Do After You Have Unprotected Sex
description: So you had a one-night stand. Dont sweat it too hardanywhere from 50 percent to a whopping 72 percent of people admit to no-strings-attached sex. With bars, websites, and hookup apps in the palm of your hand, getting down with someone you hardly know isnt such a rarity anymore.
But having a morning-after game plan is essentialespecially if you didnt use protection. Heres what you need to know to ensure youre healthy after a one-off hookup sans condom.
Within 30 Minutes
Take a trip to the restroom.
Put aside STI (the updated term for STD) and pregnancy worries. Theres nothing you can do about either of those at the moment. Instead, focus on what you can control: lowering your risk for UTIs. Around 80 percent of women who get UTIs have had sex in the past 24 hours. Some women are simply more prone to the infection, but one of the most effective ways for anyone to avoid a UTI is to pee shortly after sex, says Kat Van Kirk, Ph.D., licensed marriage and family therapist and clinical sexologist. It clears out the urethra, sweeping bacteria along with it.
Know your risk of getting an STI isn't 100 percent.
We get that you may be freaked out, but there is some good news: While STI rates are going up, according to the CDC, your risk of being infected after a one-night stand isnt so black and white, Van Kirk says. Factors that come into play include your partners age and geographic location; whether your immune system is busy fighting off a cold; or whether you have microabrasions on your vagina, penis, anus, mouth, or other areas that have skin-to-skin contact or exposure to fluids.
Within 72 HoursTake Plan B.
Not on birth control, ladies? Take an emergency contraceptive within 72 hours of unprotected sex, but sooner is even better, says Fahimeh Sasan, D.O., assistant professor of obstetrics, gynecology, and reproductive science at Mount Sinai in New York. Plan B or a generic version of the OTC med is 89 percent effective in preventing pregnancy if taken within 72 hours, but that number jumps to 95 percent if you take it within 24 hours of having sex.
Definitely take it if youre ovulatingthe time of the month when your bodys most fertile. But unless you're super familiar with your cycle and you know ovulation is more than five days away, it's probably a good idea to grab it, Van Kirk says. If youre on the pill or use another form of contraception, save your money, both experts agree.
Note: Whether you're female or male, gay or straight, if you think theres any chance youve been exposed to HIV, alert your medical care provider or emergency room physician. You may be prescribed post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP), a 28-day treatment that may prevent an HIV infection from taking hold.
Check for anything out of the ordinary down under.
For women, this includes unusual dischargechanges in volume, consistency (e.g., chunkier), or color (less clear, more white, or pinkish/bloody)as well as unusual odor (fishy, yeasty) and itchiness or pain, Van Kirk says. Most STIs are asymptomatic, but infections like UTIs, yeast infections, or bacterial vaginosis cause symptoms like this anywhere from 24 hours to a week post hookup. Other symptoms of STIs for women can be found here. Guys, check any unusual symptoms against this list.
Take stock of your mental state.
It's not unusual to feel a little down after a one-nighter. If you're feeling blue, talk it out with a trusted friend or a therapist. But dont be too hard on yourself, and remember youre not alone: One study found only 54 percent of women felt good after a one-night stand (compared to 80 percent of men). Accept that you made a decision in the moment and move on to ensuring youre healthy. Don't let unwarranted feelings of shame override important next steps, like getting tested for STDs or pregnancy.
2 Weeks Post Hookup
Take a pregnancy test.
While an at-home pregnancy test is most accurate one week after your missed period, many brands offer tests that are more than 99 percent accurate even sooner (like First Response). But if you want to know for sureand ASAPschedule an appointment with your doc, who can test for the markers in your blood.
See your OB/GYN or PCP.
Its a good idea to get tested two weeks post hookup, Sasan says. Thats when you can get a preliminary all-clear on STIs. Most STI tests look for antibodies, and your immune system may not have necessarily developed these at 14 days, but a clean result provides a little security to get you through to your follow-up a few weeks later.
Watch out for symptoms.
One sign to look out for: a herpes sore outbreak. This could occur anywhere from 10 days to 10 years after being infected, but its crucial to get to the doc as soon as you spot one, Van Kirk says. You have to actually swab an open lesion to confirm that its herpes, so once the sore healswhich can be within just a few daystheres nothing to test for, she explains. If a questionable bump pops up down there or around your mouth, call your doc that day. Most clinics will squeeze you in if you tell them youre worried you have a herpes sore, she adds.
6 Weeks to 6 Months Post Hookup
See your doc (again).
If your tests are clean at your two-week visit, going back a month later will confirm these results, Sasan says. And while youre probably fine, Van Kirk recommends another visit three to six months later. HIV and HPV in particular take longer for your body to create antibodies against, so six months increases the likelihood that, if this virus is in your system, your immune system will have reacted enough for a test to pick up on.
After 6 MonthsWhen do you have confirmation youre free and clear? With pregnancy, you can breathe that sigh of relief after your blood test comes back negative, or once you get your period, Sasan says.
Unfortunately, you dont have the same comfort with STIs. People can have contact, get exposed to an STI, but not have it manifest, Sasan says. Since some stay dormant in your system for years, its crucial to get an STI check at every annual checkup and to use condoms with all future partners.
With the potential for STIs and unplanned pregnancy, reckless hookups are rife with reasons to beat yourself up. But use it as a motivating factor, Van Kirk suggests. All you can do is plan to be more responsible in the future, she adds.
Before Next Time
So what should you do differently next time? For starters, BYO condoms. And even more importantly: Dont be shy about askingaloudwhether your partner puts one on. Theres no shame in insisting youre both staying safe. Also remember: If the condom breaks, all the above rules still apply.
If youre experiencing any kind of regret, analyze what factors led you to make this decision, Van Kirk adds. Research has proven what most of us have learned for ourselves: When we drink heavily, we're more likely to make poor and impulsive decisions. So if you cant trust yourself after tequila, then know to stay away from that on your next night out. You live and you learn.
This article was written by Rachael Schultz from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This New Kind Of Credit Score Is All Based On How You Use Your Cell Phone
description: When you apply for a credit card or a loan in the United States, most banks and retailers will turn to one of the three major credit reporting agenciesEquifax, Transunion, or Experianto get your credit score and decide if they'll make you a loan.
"Someone who is on their phone a lot is likely to be more economically active."
In many emerging market countries, where the cash economy is more prevalent and credit is less common, far fewer people have any credit history, and thus have no credit score at all. The World Bank estimates that 61% of people in Latin America and the Caribbean are "unbanked," or outside of the formal financial system. When a family in the region's growing middle class and wants to finance a refrigerator or a carinstead of saving cash for months or yearsthey may be denied the loan because they lack a credit history.
Over the last few years, many startup lenders have looked to use alternative data sources to help a broader population access the credit system, both in the United States and in the developing world (examples include Branch, Lenddo, InVenture, and AvantCredit). Most have written algorithms that take into account nontraditional variables, like social media use, cell-phone data, and even a person's punctuationto decide whether they're a good credit risk. This is different than the popular practice in development of microfinance, which usually charges high interest rates to make loans to very poor people and is a very hands-on process.
Hadkhanong via Shutterstock
What's interesting is that traditional credit scorers are now getting involved in using non-traditional data sources. In Chile, the credit scoring agency Equifax is about to launch a partnership with the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based startup Cignifi that will use cell-phone data to provide a "Predictor Inclusion Score" for people with no credit history.
"It's calibrated to be kind of like a credit scoreand basically what this is doing is helping banks and retailers say 'yes' to people they always would have said 'no' to before," says Robin Moriarty, CMO for Equifax in Latin America. "A lot of our banking and retail customers want to make loans to a broader segment of the population."
Equifax and Cignifi, a startup that provides software for analyzing credit scores based on mobile phone behavior, have been developing the partnership for a few years. One of the biggest hurdles was figuring out how to make sure privacy and data security were strong and met all regulations. The program is entirely opt-in. So when a consumer wants to apply for a loan or line of credit, they give explicit permission for a lender to access their Predictor Inclusion Score. Through partnerships with telecom companies, Cignifi's software can then calculate the score based solely on a person's phone usage patterns (it doesn't look at who they call, location, or the contents of their conversations or text messages). By law, the scores aren't used for marketing offers.
"A lot of our banking and retail customers want to make loans to a broader segment of the population."
"Someone who is on their phone a lot is likely to be more economically active. You can see things like consistency of usage over timethat indicates economic activity and predictable behavior," Moriarty says.
In the past, Equifax had looked at using other data sources like social media usagebut they found that, at least in Latin America, people who use social media are already in the middle class and tend to have sufficient credit scores. Moriarty says the program takes inspiration from similar initiatives in India and Africa, such as the Safaricom-run M-Shwari, which uses cell-phone data to make small loans. But to her knowledge, nothing similar has been tried in Latin America yet. They plan to expand to more countries after seeing how the program works in Chile.
"My expectation, in the future, is that you will see more sources of data used, and you will see many more different kinds of [credit] scores emerge. Lenders will make decisions about loans for individuals in ways you haven't seen before."
This article was written by Jessica Leber from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Have We Reached Peak Standing Desk?
description: At this point, there can be nobody who uses both a desk and the Internet who doesn't know that sitting down is just about the most dangerous thing a human can do, probably worse than skydiving or working as a bike courier.
To combat this, we've seen every kind of standing desk, from desks for kids to desks that convert your health-hazard of an office chair into a life-giving standing desk to desks so beautifully designed you'll never want to sit down again.
You could say that we've reached peak standing desk. And that's no idle claim, because we have evidence that we're about to reach the standing desk singularity. First, take a look at the Oristand, a $25 standing desk that looks like little more than a couple of cardboard boxes stacked on on top of the other. We covered the Oristand back in January. Now, take a look at the Switch Stance, which I received an email about this week. The Switch Stance is almost exactly the same as the Oristand, right down to the bow-tie shaped base. The only difference I can see is that the Switch Stance can be folded up and is a few dollars more expensive.
I asked Saso Kastelic, one of the folks behind the Switch Stance, why the desks are so similar. He told me that the Oristand launched just as they were finalizing Switch Stance prototypes.
First of these is the collapsible upper part, which turns the box into a laptop stand that can be used while you sit, keeping the screen at eye-level. This lets you quickly deploy it for sit/stand operation, which is much nicer than shifting the computer and the keyboard, along with all your cables and your coffee cup, every time you want to park your rear in a chair.
The Switch Stance is also a lot nicer-looking than yet another cardboard standing desk, the Refold, which is also collapsible and costs $110, and, Kastelic tells us, "The Switch Stance folds down to a very compact and portable package." This portability is keyyou're supposed to take the Switch Stance to your favorite coworker get space or coffee shop.
At this point, calling Peak Standing Desk is probably justified. Soon you'll probably get one for free when you sign up for a gym membership. But all these ultra-simple cardboard designs might be giving you other ideas. If they all look like a couple of cardboard cartons stacked on top of each other, isn't it easier (and cheaper) just to grab a couple of boxes and make your own? Don't try to balance your 27-inch iMac on top of a banana box, obviously, but a laptop and a keyboard will be more than safe on all but the flimsiest of boxes. Why not give it a go? I did, and I'm writing this article from on top of a pair of old wooden wine cases. And guess what? I've never felt healthier.
All Photos: via Switch Stance
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: New York's Newest Urban Farm Will Float Down The Hudson River
description: New York City's newest urban farm will look a little different from most: instead of factory-like rows of plants growing in a warehouse, it will be a lush, natural-looking food forest that floats down the Hudson River in a barge.
As it docks at local piers this summerstopping at each pier for at least two weeksNew Yorkers will be able to get on, wander around, and pick free food.
The farm-as-art-project, called Swale, is on the water for a few reasons. The first is practical. Food forests are a type of community garden that mimics a natural landscape, and that anyone can freely harvest. Though they exist in a few other places, such as Seattle, they're illegal on land in New York City. But by putting Swale in the Hudson River, the artists who created it were able to sidestep that regulation.
Because it's on a boat, it can also easily travel around the city, making the group's case that food forests would be a good addition to the urban landscapehealthy food as a free public service.
"It highlights the waterways as a commons."
"First and foremost, the barge can move from place to place so more people can have access to it," says Mary Mattingly, the artist who initiated the project. "It highlights the waterways as a commonsas a space that needs to be cared for and in turn can care for us."
The design, an 80-by-30-foot floating platform made from shipping containers, will also make use of the water. If it doesn't rain for a long time, Swale will use a custom system to suck up river water, desalinate and purify it with marsh plants and two large filters, and then finally use the clean water to irrigate the plants.
Like other food forests, Swale will be planted in a mini-ecosystem that's somewhat self-sufficient. The barge will grow more than 80 species of trees and plants, from wild ginger and raspberries to asparagus and arugula.
Everything will grow in soil, in contrast to the hydroponic growing systems used at most indoor or rooftop urban farms. "We really believe in soil-based growing systems wherever they can be had," says Mattingly. "It eliminates need for extra electrical energy, nutrient solutions, algae management, and so forth. It never crossed our mind to use hydroponics when our structure can support the weight of soil, and need less maintenance because of that. We are focused on growing systems that require minimal human intervention, due to their longevity."
As the barge docks, it will work with each neighborhood to promote the idea of food forests on land. "While Swale moves from pier to pier, we are working to establish permanent food forests at stops along Swale's route on public land," she says. "So for instance, we are working with Dewitt Clinton High School in the Bronx to establish a permanent food forest on their city-owned land."
"The time is now to inspire transitional economies that include fresh and healthy food."
Ultimately, Mattingly and the artists and organizations she has partnered with hope to change city policy. "We believe the time is now to inspire transitional economies that include fresh and healthy food as a public service, not just an expensive commodity," Mattingly says. "We believe that there is a place at the table for art that is active, experiential, and a service itself."
Swale launched a Kickstarter campaign to raise the final funds needed to finish the barge, and plans to launch in June.
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Texting Doesn't Kill PeopleDriving Does
description: Texting doesn't kill people, even when you're behind the wheel while you're doing it. No, what kills people is the many-ton metal object traveling at high speeds. And to prove it, Phillip Cohen, a professor of sociology at the University of Maryland, took on the "texting-while-driving" epidemic and puts the scarequite humorouslyin its place.
Cohen thinks that our obsession with texting while driving is blinding us to the real problem: driving in general.
"The texting scare distracts us (I know, it's ironic) from the giant problem staring us in the face: Our addiction to private vehicles itself costs thousands of lives a year (not including the environmental effects)."
Cohen begins by dismantling a widely reported statistic that more than 3,000 teens die a year "from texting." According to Insurance Institute for Highway Safety data, only 2,623 teenagers total died in crashes in 2014 (the last year for which figures are available). Not all of them, presumably, were texting.
That's not to say that texting while driving isn't dangerous. It's just that it is one of many ways you can die while in or near a car. Cyclists know that seeing a driver fiddling with their cell phone while they hurtle down the street is a terrifying sight, but you see it much less often than a car nudging into a bike lane without checking, or dashing through a junction, or speeding, or turning right without indicating or checking their blind spot.
To illustrate the point, Cohen shows two graphs. One plots vehicle deaths per 100,000 population against mobile phone subscriptions per 100,000 population, across U.S. states. The result is a mess of random noise with no correlation whatsoever. Then he compares vehicle miles driven, instead, and the chart suddenly snaps into place, with a neat clustering indicating that driving more does indeed lead to more deaths.
Cohen also uses Google's Correlate tool to find out what people in the most deadly traffic states were searching for. He discovered that, in Alaska and other states where road deaths are above average, the leading search is "large, American pickup trucks." No kidding. "I could think of several reasons why places where people are into pickup trucks have more than their predicted share of fatal accidents," he writes.
Cohen's takedown is amusing, but it hides a good point: Driving really is dangerous. Cars are getting safer and safer, for the occupants at least, but they're still killing us at a rate of 10.4 deaths per 100,000 population. And while correcting the bad behavior of people who think its okay to give their attention to their phone instead of to the road ahead is a good thing, it also distracts us from the real problem: Cars have become so entrenched that we forget how bad they are.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Mars Will Tell You Which Foods Are Good For "Everyday" Or "Occasional" Eating
description: Too busy to cook and thinking of heating up that lasagna for dinner yet again? Mars Foods wants you to think again.
Over the next few years, the companywhich owns a lot of food brands besides the candy it's best known forplans to introduce new food labeling that tells consumers how often it's appropriate to eat its food products, based on World Health Organization guidelines. Foods that have too much salt, sugar, or fat will be labeled "occasional" and everything else will be called an "everyday" food.
Many packaged and prepared food companies are trying to appeal to more health-conscious consumers today, taking voluntary steps to remove artificial ingredients, sugar, and GMOs, or use more organic or whole grain ingredients. In some places, governments are introducing more regulations or stringent guidelines, such as a tax on sugary drinks in the U.K. or a proposed dietary value for "added sugar" in the United States.
Christian De Araujo via Shutterstock
The "everyday" and "occasional" labeling takes it a bit further. "Consumers are more and more interested in eating a balanced diet," says Craig Annis, vice president of corporate affairs at Mars Foods. "We thought that going the extra step from a transparency perspective was really important."
The new labeling plan applies only to its "main meal" products, which include Uncle Ben's rice and Dolmio pasta sauces but not its Snickers candy bars (presumably most people know those should be occasional foodseven if they can't help but eat them seven days a week). As it rolls out the new labeling, some products such as whole grain rice will clearly be for eating every day. Mars also plans to reformulate some recipes to remove salt and fat so they can be classified as "everyday" foods. About 5% of its foods that need fat and salt to taste good, such as pesto or lasagna, will always be in the "occasional" category, says Annis. That means, according to the company, eating them no more than once a week.
The labeling plan, which is part of the company's larger health and wellness initiatives, will be put in place over five years, says Annis, with changes to the website coming as soon as this year and packaging labels later. After making the announcement, Annis heard of a few French retailers who are doing similar labeling, but no global company or government has done anything similar yet, he says. He hopes others will follow, however.
Whether this kind of labeling will have any affect on consumer behavior will be interesting to see. Done widely, it could be a more intuitive way to make grocery shopping decisions, rather than having to do math in your head analyzing nutrition labels. But these terms are a little hard to parse without considering them within the context of our individual diets. And unless regulated, it's pretty easy to foresee the definitions of "everyday" and "occasional" foods getting slippery awfully fast.
This article was written by Jessica Leber from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This New Car-Free Neighborhood Redesigns Suburbia
description: It's possible that some people might own a car in a new neighborhood designed for Mannheim, Germany. But they won't be able to drive up to their doors: The entire neighborhood is car-free, with parking hidden underground.
Instead of roads, the neighborhood will have sidewalks that connect with paths in a surrounding park. "Essentially the project recreates the park experience on a residential scale, and removing the road allows the park to permeate throughout the site unrestricted," says Johannes Pilz, one of the architects from the design firm MVRDV, which worked on the development for Traumhaus, a German affordable housing developer.
"By getting rid of the cars, you then open up the streets, whether it's for children to come out and play with each other, or to encourage residents to sit outside their house, chat with one another, or go for a stroll," he says. "By getting rid of the [pavement] barrier between households, you then increase interactions between neighbors, and the community then starts to bond."
The neighborhood will also try to deliberately build diversity. Instead of the standard suburban pattern of long rows of single-family homes, the development will include a mix of different sized houses and apartments designed for young couples, students, the elderly, and families. Residents can pick the design that matches their needs; a new family might choose a house built on stilts with room to expand and build out the first floor if they later need the space.
Because the development will maintain a ratio of different housing types, it hopes to stay relatively diverse and avoid gentrification. The houses are also designed to be affordable to build. Like Traumhaus's other developments, using standardized components makes mass production cheaper. MVRDV just tweaked those basic components to create a catalog of variations.
"To come up with different, more innovative variations of their designs doesn't require any expensive modification, it just requires more in-depth thinking into how people live their everyday lives, and how their needs might be different from their neighbors," says Pilz. "What we did was translate this thinking, combined with Traumhaus's components, into a catalog of designs that can serve a whole community in a whole spectrum of different ways."
Each resident can also choose a custom garden to go with their house. "The scheme itself is an extension of the surrounding park," says Pilz. "Through the network of paths and gardens, the atmosphere of the park weaves its way through the neighborhood. Individualized gardens, each of them different and customized, will throw a vibrant mix of colors throughout the village."
The neighborhood will be next to a tram stop, so residents won't necessarily need to own a car at all, though the designers decided to give the option of underground parking. The design also allows emergency vehicles to drive into the neighborhood.
The designers think that the development, which will be built in a former U.S. Army barracks on the outskirts of Mannheim, can help change how people see the suburbs, and serve as a model for other communities. "Suburbs have become stale, isolated neighborhoods copy-and-pasted throughout the country," he says. "The hope of our partnership with Traumhaus is that we might offer an alternative to the monotony of suburban living today, showing that there is an alternative to low-quality, expensive, and identical housing."
All Images: courtesy MVRDV
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: I'm Always Tired! Am I Pushing Myself Too Hard or Is Something Actually Wrong With Me?
description: Q: Im a 25-year-old woman trying to balance kicking off my career, spending time with my boyfriend and friends, and staying healthy by making it to the gym. I get enough sleep, but Im still constantly exhausted. How do I know if I'm always tired because Im pushing myself too hard or if something is actually wrong with me?
A: Great question, and one I imagine just about every womanregardless of agehas faced at one point or another.
I can certainly relate. Trying to juggle my roles as mom, wife, and entrepreneur is no easy feat and that nonstop schedule can definitely impact my energy levels. But even though I sometimes feel spent at the end of a busy day, the tired feeling I get nowadays is nothing compared to the crushing fatigue I experienced when I was living through serious hormonal turmoil.
Even though your daily to-dos might be different than mine, youre balancing a lot and trying your best to do it all perfectly. But whether you realize it or not, the stress of a hectic schedule can and does impact your hormonal health, and that might explain your overwhelming exhaustion.
Extreme fatigue is no joke; it can cloud your judgment, put you on an emotional roller coaster, and have real physical repercussions. All of this can impact your endocrine system in a major way, and chugging venti soy mochas in an effort to combat the crazy-making tiredness only make matters worse.
Occasional sleepiness is perfectly normal, but if you think youre flat-lining energy levels are a consequence of something deeper, youll need to understand how your lifestyle is affecting your body.
Is Adrenal Fatigue Draining Your Energy?Maybe youve heard the phrase adrenal fatigue floating around for a while, but youve never considered how the diagnosis could apply to you. Thats the case for many of my clients, but once they learn more about the symptoms, they often see a connection to their exhausted conditions.
Adrenal fatigue is a collection of signs and symptomsincluding, yes, fatiguethat indicates your adrenal glands arent working properly. Those tiny endocrine glands located above the kidneys can malfunction for a variety of reasons, including chronic stress and poor dietary choices. The initial signs can be subtle, but if you let the issue go, youll absolutely start to seriously feel the effects.
The adrenals are super important because they produce a crucial hormone called cortisol (lovingly known as the stress hormone). Cortisol mobilizes stored glucose from fat and provides the body with energy between meals.
In a perfect world, your first jolt of cortisol gets you out of bed around 6 a.m, another one powers you through your day around noon, a smaller one hits mid-afternoon, and a tiny one comes around dinner.
But if youre chronically stressed at work, loading up on junk food, or swearing off the gym, you might inadvertently throw your cortisol production completely off. Initially these lifestyle stressors can cause the normal schedule to go in reverse: youll drag yourself out of bed because that natural cortisol surge wont come when your alarm goes off, and youll be wide awake and wired at bedtime. This flip-flop is whats known as stage-2 adrenal fatigue, and its what I experienced during the height of my hormonal imbalance.
If you dont nip the issue in the bud, you might progress to stage 3, in which your body just quits making cortisol at all, leaving you simultaneously exhausted and anxious (and experiencing potential period problems). This is the point where so many women seek out help from their doctors and are prescribed a pill. But medication wont solve the underlying issue. Heres what will:
1. Skip the coffee and introduce the right foods and supplements.
It may seem like its working in the short-term, but caffeine is only exacerbating your symptoms. Starting your day with a protein-packed combo of eggs, avocado, and gluten-free toast will fuel your day and keep your blood sugar stable. Adding in supplements like ginkgo biloba and rhodiola can support your mental focus, and vitamins B12 and B5 can boost your energy.
2. Work out in a way that complements your hormones.
Exercise is important, but torturing yourself with a brutal boot camp workout when youre already exhausted is the wrong approach. If youre dealing with adrenal fatigue, the surge of workout-induced cortisol will worsen the problem, stressing your system further. Try syncing your workouts to your cycle, so that your fitness routine supports your adrenals. Here are some helpful examples.
3. Shift your priorities and focus on what truly matters.
If you cant remember the last time you took a day off or did something good just for you, its time to step back and seriously reevaluate. Think about which parts of your life matter most, and how you can implement good self-care while continuing to invest in your relationship, career, and social life. (Not sure where to start? This article is incredibly helpful.)
4. Find a community that gives you unconditional support.
Adrenal fatigue can be incredibly isolating since it saps your energy and keeps you from engaging in the parts of your life that matter most. Seek out friends, family members, acquaintances, or skilled professionals who make you feel safe, supported, and understood.
Need More Hormone Help?
Ive designed a four-day hormone detox and evaluation to help you understand exactly whats out of whack and how you can start getting back to balance. Click here to learn more!
Alisa Vitti, HHC, is an integrative nutritionist; best-selling author of WomanCode; creator of the WomanCode System; and the founder of FLOLiving.com, a virtual health center that supports womens hormonal and reproductive health. Check out her profile page to learn more or follow her on Facebook.
This article was written by Alisa Vitti from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: How Going to Fancy Fitness Classes Actually Made Me Lazier
description: Ive come to love working out in the morning.
Even though I have to physically drag myself out of bed and set three alarms so I dont snooze through my wake-up call, exercising first thing in the morning sets me up for a better, more productive day.
My workout always varies: Sometimes I run solo outside; other days, I meet my workout group for a free boot camp in the park. In the summer, I regularly swim laps at a recreational outdoor pool. And less frequently, Ill take a drop-in fancy fitness class at a local studio, reluctantly paying the (outrageous) price and packing a bag the night before, so I can shower and head straight to work afterward.
I follow this exercise plan four seasons a year, and except for torrential downpours and blizzard-level snowfalls, I try not to let the elements outside dictate my schedule. After all, an 8-mile run is just as far in crappy weather as it is on a sunny day. And as a person who is constantly training for the next marathon or triathlon, Im all too familiar with the fact that a training plan waits for no one.
This strategy was working out just fineuntil I signed up for a two-week introductory period of ClassPass a few months ago.
My New Fitness InfatuationIf you havent heard of ClassPass, its a popular service that allows subscribers in various cities to attend a variety of fitness classes at boutique studios and mega-chain gyms for a fixed fee per month. This all-inclusive service is a dream come true for fitness fanatics like myselfthat is, of course, if you can afford it.
Costs vary per city, but in New York, where boutique fitness studios typically charge around $30 per class, the $125 monthly subscription fee scores you a major deal, as long as you drop into enough gyms each month. Unfortunately, the price is still steep. So you can probably imagine my excitement when I found a deal for two weeks of the subscription service for just $20. I jumped at the chance to join and began signing up for classes immediately.
The first class I took was The Ride, a Spinning class at Crunch gym. After that, I sprinted my way through speed work intervals in the front row of the treadmill studio Mile High Run Club. I hustled hard on a row machine in Bricks B|X workout and climbed mountains on a stationary bike (well, at least they felt like mountains) at Revolve indoor cycling studio.
The options were endless; I was in cardio heaven. A friend had also signed up for the deal, so we would excitedly debate over which studio to try next. Maybe a HIIT workout at The Fhitting Room? A competitive ride at SWERVE? Or perhaps we should check out Mile High Run Clubs endurance running class, The Distance?
The First Sign of Trouble
As amazing as this newfound fitness glory was, I have to admit: I was getting seriously spoiled. Towels, water, and shiny new workout equipment was available to me at an unprecedented rate. Flywheel studios even provide free apples and bananas. (Yes, really. Free healthy snacks!). Running home to shower between my workout and my workday was no longer an issue, as all the studios I picked had showers complete with fancy shampoos and rich body lotions I wouldnt normally treat myself to. Suddenly, I scoffed at working out in the rain, sleet, and snow. I had the safe haven of a dry, warm studio available with just a few taps in the app on my phone. Forgot a hair tie? Psh. Of course the studio had a surplus for me to choose from, not to mention deodorant, bobby pins, and breath mints!
Before I knew it, the second week of my trial began, and it became increasingly difficult to book classes. I found myself staying late at work, scrolling through the website to see if any open classes caught my eye. When nothing didor everything I was interested in was bookedI was reluctant to return to my normal routine of running outside or heading to the park for a quick workout using a DIY routine for inspiration.
To be clear, by reluctant, I mean I was unwilling and unmotivated. Plus I had banked on working out inside, so I didnt bring the extra layers necessary to tough it out in the cold.
In a word, I became softat least, when it came to my fitness routine. My original mind-over-matter, no-excuses attitude had been crushed by the promise of expensive equipment, trainers that held me accountable, and, pathetic as it sounds, luxurious shampoos. The idea of going for an impromptu run before work or heading outside when the weather forecast showed a chance of rain became less and less attractive to me in a devastatingly short period of time.
My motivation went from 100 percent personal willpower to being reduced to the fear of paying a fee if I didnt show up to class.
Thats rightthe $20 offer wasnt a final-price type of deal. Theres a cancellation fee if you cancel a class within 12 hours (common with most studios). One morning, I was so exhausted from my speed dating experience with fitness studios that I slept through an hour of gym time Id signed up for, and $15 was taken straight out of my account for being a no-show. Ouch.
How I Got Over ItImage: The Rise NYCNow, lets be clear: ClassPass, or any membership-based fitness service, like FitReserve, is still a great idea for individuals who like trying out new workouts and have the time to book their favorites the moment new classes open up. But in my experience, the membershipeven one as short as two weekscaused my motivation to dwindle and my commitment to waver.
Signing up for a class and showing up is easy, but making your own workout (whether its a running route or bootcamp-style circuit), dressing appropriately, and getting it done without an instructor barking orders at you is hardand 100 percent up to you.
Waiting on a class that I wanted to try to open made me forget that working out anywhere, even if it was for just 15 minutes on my living room floor, was way better than skipping a sweat session all together because the time, weather, or shower situation was inconvenient.
Thats not to say Id never go back. In fact, instead of quitting my ClassPass membership cold turkey, I opted to downgrade to just five classes a month for a fraction of the price. That way, I can still treat myself to a fancy workout (and indulge in some of the luxe extras) once a week without the option to wuss out on my other workouts.
While going back to outdoor and on-my-own workouts in the weeks that followed was slightly difficult (there were many snooze button hits, cranky groans, and requests for accountability texts from my workout buddies), I was eventually able to get back to my original routine.
If anything, my brief fling with fancy fitness classes taught me that motivation shouldnt come from having to pay annoying fees or getting to exercise using state-of-the-art equipment. It should come from within me, for meto accomplish my goals, to run a faster race time, to get stronger, to feel more confidentand most importantly, to do something that I love, for no one else but myself.
This article was written by Erin Kelly from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Why Drawing Your To-Do List Is Better Than Writing It
description: Even if you make checklists or use a to-do app, it can be tough to remember everything you're supposed to get done in a day. Next time, try drawing pictures to represent your tasks. A new study found that participants were more likely to remember things when they drew them. Researchers think this is because when you draw something, you have to think about its characteristics (how big is it, its shape, etc.) and use your motor skills to produce an image (as opposed to quickly jotting something down). In other words, you spend more time and effort encoding it into your memory.
Whether you actually cross things off your list is another story, but this way you'll at least keep your to-dos top of mind. Plus the whole adult coloring thing is pretty trendy right now.
(h/t The Science of Us)
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Carbon Fee Debate Goes Mainstream in Washington State
description: As governments worldwide begin imposing fees on pollution to try to protect the climate, a debate over dueling approaches
one that has long been restricted to conferences and academia
is becoming prominent in Washington state.
Washington voters will decide in November whether to introduce a carbon tax on fossil fuels and electricity from coal and natural gas, with the goal of slowing global warming while reducing taxes on sales and manufacturing and keeping total tax revenue flat overall.Traffic in Seattle.
Credit:SounderBruce/Flickr
If Initiative 732 passes, the Evergreen State would buck a national trend in which other states have been adopting a different system for carbon pricing
that of cap-and-trade, in which pollution levels are capped and allowances to release pollution are sold and traded.
Some folks on our executive committee and in our grassroots base have a strong preference for a carbon tax, said Yoram Bauman, an economist and comic involved with Carbon Washington, a group that drafted the initiative and gathered signatures.
Carbon pricing is popular among economists and climate experts because it can account for some of the hidden costs of climate change by taxing fossil fuels, which raises prices and reduces demand. That helps solar, wind and other climate-protecting alternatives compete on price.
{related}
Worldwide, carbon pricing is being adopted rapidly as countries and states work to slow global warming. China plans to roll out a nationwide program next year, joining the European Union, Kazakhstan, California and other governments in putting a price on carbon.
The World Bank and International Monetary Fund were campaigning in support of carbon pricing ahead of the signing last week of the United Nations climate treaty, which was finalized in Paris in December.
Some experts prefer a carbon tax over cap-and-trade, arguing that its more efficient and less complicated. Others prefer cap-and-trade, arguing that the approach provides governments with greater control over the amount of pollution thats released each year.
Bauman said a carbon tax is simple and transparent, and he pointed out that neighboring British Columbia already has a carbon tax in place. The choice of a carbon tax for I-732 came from some issues that are pretty specific to Washington State.
Carbon pricing programs worldwide in 2015.
Credit: World Resources Institute, "Putting a Price on Carbon: A Handbook for U.S. Policymakers."
The debate has spilled into the Democratic primary race, with Bernie Sanders pushing for a carbon tax. During a 2007 race, Hillary Clinton said she opposed a carbon tax
but only because she favored cap-and-trade.
The ballot initiative is the latest effort to establish a system in Washington that prices carbon pollution. Cap-and-trade legislation by Gov. Jay Inslee was rejected last year by lawmakers, and his administration is now trying to cap carbon pollution using regulatory powers.
The differences between carbon taxes and cap-and-trade programs are dwarfed by the similarities between them, said Noah Kaufman, a climate economist at the nonprofit World Resources Institute. A lot of the differences that you hear talked about are not really fundamental differences between the policies, but what to do with the revenue.
The Washington ballot measure was crafted to be revenue neutral for the state, helping to curb pollution while reducing other taxes. A government analysis indicated those cuts could substantially reduce state revenue overall, though backers of the proposal disagree with the finding. Major winners would be low-income families, which would receive $1,500 tax rebates.TheCentralia Power Plant in Washington burns coal, which is a major cause of global warming.
Credit:Kid Clutch/Flickr
Carbon Washington is facing opposition to its ballot initiatives from corporations that use and produce energy.
We dont think a price on carbon is necessary, said Brandon Houskeeper, who oversees government affairs at the Association of Washington Businesses. We think its the wrong approach.
The planned revenue neutrality of the measure has also sparked opposition from groups that are fighting for a system that sets aside funds for environmental initiatives.
California, European nations and some other governments earmark large chunks of revenues from cap-and-trade programs to be spent on efforts to promote clean energy and reduce pollution impacts in poor communities.
Washingtons carbon tax ballot initiative doesnt have a huge united coalition behind it, said Kristin Eberhard, a researcher who tracks carbon pricing for the Sightline Institute, a think tank based in Seattle.
Climate Solutions, a nonprofit in the Pacific Northwest, says it can't support but won't oppose I-732, preferring to continue to push for adoption of an alternative carbon pricing program
one that would provide funding for environmental initiatives in Washington.
We need a more comprehensive solution, said Vlad Gutman, director of Climate Solutions Washington office. We need to drive investments to clean energy.
{like}
Correction: This article originally stated that Climate Solutions opposes the measure. In fact, it does not support or oppose it.
This article was from Climate Central and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Amy Schumers Hilarious New Sketch Has an Important Message About Womens Health
description: Were pretty big fans of anything that makes us laugh about periods, especially when it comes with a sassy reminder that we have a long way to go in how we talk about themand women's health in general. So of course we love this hilarious video from Inside Amy Schumer, where Schumer visits the gynecologist only to find that her doctor for the day is a group of congressmen. Youll crack up at her snarky comebacks to questions about her lady curse," but its also an important wakeup call for anyone who squirms at the word vagina or any other womens health issue (a.k.a. health issues that affect half the population!).
This article was written by Alyssa Raiola from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: New Study Says Loneliness Can Literally Hurt Your Heart
description: Adding "me time" into your schedule can be a great way to relax, unwind, and do the things you really want to do. But spending too much time alone could increase your risk for heart disease and stroke, according to the findings from a new comprehensive study. The meta-analysis looked at 23 studies with more than 181,000 participants. Even after adjusting for other health factors, researchers found the people who reported being lonely were 29 percent more likely to develop coronary heart disease and 32 percent more likely to suffer a stroke.
Previous studies have found people who are lonely are less likely to exercise or see the doctor and more likely to smoke and be obese. Additionally, loneliness has been connected to higher rates of anxiety and depression and a weaker immune system. Taken together, these factors make the findings from the meta-analysis less surprising.
But it's one more reason to put yourself out there and make new friends. But, of course, that's much easier said than done, which is why we put together this handy guide. Click the button below to check it out.
I Want to Make New Friends!
(h/t Heart Journal)
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Anker Powerhouse Is A Phone Charger For A Real Emergency
description: Portable battery packs have become an appreciated bit of crapgadgetry in the smartphone era, especially since swappable batteries are a rare feature in a modern phone. How about a keychain battery? Or a clip-on crank-powered pack? Need it waterproof? On it. Hell, even Apple sells a battery pack phone case now.
As nice as those may be, most external battery packs will only net you one phone rechargetwo if you're lucky. For those off the grid or facing a broken grid in an emergency, popular battery and charging gadget maker has just launched the "Powerhouse," a 10-pound, aluminum-shelled block that has a 120,600 mAh capacity. That's enough to recharge a phone around 40 times, a laptop around 15 times, or even run a television or small refrigerator for a few hours. (Although not all at once.)
Overkill for around town? Absolutely. But that's not the market Anker is trying to address with this one. Instead, it's hoping the Powerhouse will replace other portable charging solutions that use heavier lead-acid batteries, like the popular Goal Zero Yeti 400, which has a similar energy capacity but weighs almost three times as much. (It also has a nicer AC converter and more 12v and 110v outlet plugs, so the game isn't over for Goal Zero quite yet.)
These types units are popular for car campers and overlanders, as well as those who live in areas where electricity isn't on tap; filling up the electron bucket when in town or storing a bright day's sunlight can be the difference between having hot water or light when away from the grid. Doing it with a box full of lithium-ion batteries, as Anker has done, makes the whole thing smaller and lighter than lead-acid alternatives, and much smaller than even the smallest gas generators.
Of course, you'll pay the greatest for the latest: $500, no carrying case included. (Although you can usually find a deal for $400 during the launch, like using the code "ANKPower" on Amazon.) Given the trajectory of battery pricing over the years, it's likely the Powerhouse and its competitors will get cheaper; you can weigh the premium against your likelihood of power outages.
This article was written by Joel Johnson from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Vintage Photos of New York Come To Life In This 3-D Animation
description: Take a moment and watch this amazing movie of old world America. It was created by 3-D artist Alexey Zakharov using real vintage photographs and modern-day computer-generated animation to bring history to life. Just ignore the cheesy steampunk-style time machine that eats up the best part of the first minute of the clip.
(Your browser doesn't support iframe)\The project takes photographs sourced from Shorpy, an archive of historical pictures and maps them onto 3-D spaces. Zakharov then added human characters, railways, and cars to the scenes from cities like New York. Seeing the streets in motion like this shrinks the distance you usually feel when viewing old still images, and the whole movie comes off like a scene from the video game series Grand Theft Auto.
Zakharov added the fake scratches to the "film," which seem to make everything less genuine. It would be great to see this process undertaken with these old color photos of New York, because, even in their non-moving form, they are far more immediate and evocative than black and white.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: How to Make Your Commute Suck Way Less
description: If you're lucky, your morning routine might look something like this: Get up on time, squeeze in a quick workout, grab breakfast on the go, and head outfor the long commute ahead.
Longer office hours and pricey inner-city real estate means people spend more time commuting than ever before. According to the 2009 census, Americans spend just over 25 minutes commuting every day. According to the same census, 86 percent of all workers drive to work, while only 5 percent take public transit, and just over 3 percent walk or bike.
Besides boredom, why is a long commute such a big deal? Studies show a time-consuming commute can have detrimental effects on mental and physical health. But it doesn't have to be that way.
The Need-to-Know
Whether you're in a car or taking public transportation, commuting adds stress.1 It can reduce time spent on social interactions, which can make people feel more isolated and depressed.2Women, especially, are prone to the psychological effects of traveling to work (possibly because they often have more household responsibilities).
But what about physical consequences? Studies show that commuting can lead to weight gain by taking up free time that could otherwise be spent on healthy activities like exercising or cooking wholesome meals.3 Sitting in a car or train instead of walking or biking can even lead to higher cholesterol, blood pressure, and BMI.4
Your Action Plan
Thankfully, there are a few things you can do to improve your commute. Here are 16 tips that'll make the daily trek less stressful and more pleasant.
Public Transportation1. Take the train.
Good news: According to one study, train commuters are less stressed and have better moods than those who drive to work. And, depending on your city, public transportation can often be more reliable than drivingmeaning you spend less time commuting. Since commute time is adversely related to overall health and stress levels, that's a good thing.
2. Bring your own entertainment.
Use a train commute to prepare your brain for "work mode." Instead of zoning out or mindlessly thumbing through Instagram, use a book or puzzle to warm up for or cool down from a long day at work.
3. Find your Zen.
Place both feet on the floor, close your eyes, and breathe deeply. The morning trip to the office can be a great time to get centered before a crazy workday. Start with just a few minutes and increase the length of the session as meditating gets easier. We have more advice on how to get started with meditation here.
4. Turn off technology.
Why start working early? Unless you're expecting an important call, refrain from technology during your commute. Rather than answer emails before you hit the door, use the time for yourself. Some public transportation networks also have quiet cars, where riders are asked to avoid talking, listening to loud music, or chatting on cell phones.
5. Snooze between stops.
With someone else's eyes on the road, theres no reason you shouldn't take a short nap. Nodding off for a few minutes won't help you catch up from a severe sleep deficit, but a few short zzzs can help you feel refreshed and be more productive. Before dozing, make sure you've secured your belongings and maybe even set a short timer so you don't miss your stop.
Driving6. Really (really!) relax.
OK, you can't actually meditate with closed eyes while driving, but you can still practice mindful breathing exercises. For example, progressive relaxation is done by tensing and relaxing each muscle group for five seconds, starting at your feet and continuing up to your face. Combine this with long, slow breaths. Or try one of these other breathing exercises.
7. Learn something new.
Turn that dreaded hour of gridlock into an opportunity to learn something. Download a podcast (here are some of our top picks), audiobook, or an app like Duolingo, which teaches you a new language (for free).
8. Change your shoes.
Something as simple as changing from work shoes to well-worn sneaks can make a commute so much better. If you've got a formal dress code at the office (hello, high heels!), switching at the end of the day is not only comfier, but it also helps signal to your brain that the stress of the day is over.
9. Loosen up before the drive.
Sitting in the drivers seat after a long day in an office chair can have negative physiological effects. Get limber with some stretches before hopping behind the wheel. Certified trainer and Greatist expert Kelvin Gary recommends loosening up your chest and hip flexors, since they are commonly used during a commute. And resist the urge to slump. As with a desk chair, adjust the seat so your posture is upright and there's no strain on your back.
More Commuting Ideas10. Bike to the office.
Start pedaling: Studies show people who bike to work take fewer sick days than their driving or train-riding peers.1 If biking isnt an option, consider cycling to a train or bus station, or meeting a carpool group a few miles from home.
Works Cited
The association between commuter cycling and sickness absence. Hendriksen IJ, Simons M, Garre FG. Preventive medicine, 2010, May.;51(2):1096-0260.
11. Grab a friend.
Spending tons of time alone in the car is not only boring, but it can also cause feelings of isolation and general unhappiness. Instead of commuting alone, find someone to share the drive or ride. People who use public transportation have more frequent and varied social interactions than car commuters. Drivers can reap similar social benefits by setting up a ride share or carpool, which has the added bonus of conserving resources, reducing expenses, and cutting down on the wear and tear of your car.
12. Snack smart.
Unexpected evening traffic jams or delayed trains can quickly turn a great day sour. To prevent a pre-dinner meltdown, get in the habit of keeping a healthy snack (like an apple or a bag of unsalted almonds) on hand.
13. Sit straight.
Yes, we all know sitting for long periods of time is the worst. But if you have to sit during your commute, watch your posture. Sit at the edge of your seat, keep your feet flat on the floor (unless you're driving!), draw your navel up and in, and lift up through the crown of the head. Hold this anatomically friendly position for 20 seconds, then relax and repeat. Stuck standing during a crowded commute? Apply the same guidelines: Stay square through the shoulders, keep spine straight, and avoid leaning on one hip.
14. Listen to soothing music.
It may be tempting to use high-energy music to wake up in the a.m., but up-tempo tunes can actually make a morning commute more stressful: One survey showed that drivers who listened to heavy metal or loud rock were more prone to road rage and collisions. Plugging in classical or similarly relaxing music can make for a safer and calmer trip.
15. Walk whenever you can.
Most commutes involve at least some sitting, so try to walk wherever possible. Hoof it to the train station instead of getting a lift or park the car in the commuter lot in the farthest-away spot. Even taking the stairs to the office instead of the elevator makes a difference.
16. Smell something nicer.
Commuting can be downright stinky. Grab some essential oils and try on-the-go aromatherapy: A drop of lavender or lemon oil can keep anxiety and funky smells at bay. Lemon, lavender, and other plants like basil, oranges, jasmine, and laurel contain linalool, a chemical compound that has a calming effect.1
Works Cited
Sedative effects of the jasmine tea odor and (R)-(-)-linalool, one of its major odor components, on autonomic nerve activity and mood states. Kuroda K, Inoue N, Ito Y. European journal of applied physiology, 2005, Jun.;95(2-3):1439-6319.
Originally published October 2012. Updated April 2016.
Works Cited
Objective and subjective dimensions of travel impedance as determinants of commuting stress. Novaco RW, Stokols D, Milanesi L. American journal of community psychology, 1990, Sep.;18(2):0091-0562.
Commute time and social capital in the U.S. Besser LM, Marcus M, Frumkin H. American journal of preventive medicine, 2008, Jun.;34(3):0749-3797.
Objective physical activity of filipino youth stratified for commuting mode to school. Tudor-Locke C, Ainsworth BE, Adair LS. Medicine and science in sports and exercise, 2003, Jul.;35(3):0195-9131.
Commuting distance, cardiorespiratory fitness, and metabolic risk. Hoehner CM, Barlow CE, Allen P. American journal of preventive medicine, 2012, Sep.;42(6):1873-2607.
This article was written by Sophia Breene from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Your Old Cell-Phone Batteries Could Power Solar Lamps For 3 Years
description: Reuse is always better than recycling, because it uses way fewer resources. And if the reusable item is an environmentally filthy cell-phone battery, all the better. That's why researchers at the University of Seoul want to take the batteries from discarded cell phones and use them as storage for solar-powered LED lamps in rural areas.
Most cell phones are replaced every couple of years, but their lithium-ion batteries are good for five years of use, meaning that they go to the landfill (or recycling center) with three years life left in them. Study author Boucar Diouf wants to use these batteries to store solar energy for the one-third of the world's population that doesn't have access to electricity. "Used mobile phone batteries associated with a solar panel and a light emitting diode lamp can be a good replacement for candles or kerosene lamps that generate pollution, are hazardous, and only give poor lighting," says Diouf in his newly-published paper.
Currently, the most-used kind of light is a kerosene lantern, which is dangerous, requires a lot of work to use compared to an electric light, and kicks out choking fumes. Electric can provide a better quality of light, which is safer and easier to use.
Flickr user m01229
Diouf also points out that all these people during lamps and candles add up to a rather large carbon footprint. His back-of-the-envelope calculation, taking a 30-cent candle in Senegal as his basic unit, comes out at 36,000 tons of CO2 per day. Using solar would cut these emissions to zero.
Diouf proposes a simple solar system, wiring a panel to an array of batteries and then a lamp. A single, standard cell-phone battery of 1,000 milliamp-hour capacity can power a one-watt LED for three hours. Swap in a half-watt bulb, which is enough to read by, and you get six hours. Diouf's team has built a 12-volt system using three batteries, a five-watt lamp and a solar panel for less than $25. That's enough to light a room for fiver hours a day, for three years, pretty much maintenance-free. The panel (and possibly the bulb) should outlast the batteries, and as the batteries were going to be trashed anyway, it's an almost perfect solution.
The very hard part, the researchers agree, is putting in place an infrastructure that can take our used batteries and get them to where they need to be. But it could be worth it, for both the people who need the light and for everyone else who hopes the world can begin to reduce its carbon emissions.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: The Wildlife In Chernobyl Might Be Radioactive--But It Seems To Be Thriving
description: Thirty years ago, when the Chernobyl disaster rained radioactive isotopes of plutonium, cesium, and strontium on the surrounding Red Forest, hundreds of acres of trees died within days. Today, some hot spots are still 100 times more radioactive than normal. But the Chernobyl Exclusion Zone no longer looks like a wastelandand a new study suggests that some wildlife is thriving there.
In large part, that's because humans are gone: because of the dangers of the fallout, people were evacuated from an area larger than 600 square miles. Many of the 250 communities that were emptied were also bulldozed to the ground. And the some of the animals that were dwindling before the accidentwolves, foxes, boarsseem to have increased in number, despite the fact that they were living with radiation.
It became an accidental (and less than ideal) nature reserve. "It is well established that many large mammals, and large carnivores in particular, generally thrive when provided sufficiently large areas of land where they are buffered from the pressures of human activity, especially the loss and degradation of habitat," says James Beasley, of the University of Georgia researchers who led the study.
Valeriy Yurko Resok
Before the disaster, some animals were hunted, and others lived in fragmented habitats, disturbed by farming, forestry, and human settlements. Now, without those pressures, they've come back. In the new study, the researchers set up remote cameras at 94 sites within the exclusion zone, added scents to attract carnivores, and counted the animals who came by over five weeks. Even in the areas that are still extremely contaminated, there were large populations of wildlife.
"The effects of everyday human activities are worse for many species of wildlife than any potential effects of radiation."
"Collectively these data suggest the exclusion zone can support abundant and self-sustaining populations of a multitude of species," says Beasley. "However, it is important to note that these studies don't suggest radiation is good for wildlife. Rather, that the effects of everyday human activities are worse for many species of wildlife than any potential effects of radiation."
Another team of researchers, who have been traveling to the area for 15 years, have published studies documenting some of those effects: some animals developed tumors and other abnormalities, while others showed decreased fertility and shorter lifespans. (Some of these findings, however, have been controversial, and disputed by other researchers.) They also found fewer animals in the most radioactive areas.
National Geographic/Jim Beasley/Sarah Webster
"When you look at the less radioactive areas, the clean areas that are inside the zone, and they're vast areas that are populated, things seem to be relatively normal there," says one of the researchers, Timothy Mousseau from the University of South Carolina. "It's when you start to focus in on those more radioactive areas that you see there is this decline in numbers."
Mousseau found similar effects in Fukushima. "In terms of birds, there are very strong drop-offs in numbers of birds in more radioactive areas," he says. "It's really kind of eeriewhen you pay attention to these things, when you go from a relatively clean area, everything seems pretty normal, the birds are flying around and singing, and 20 miles up the road in a hot place, there's no birds. It's quiet. There's very few butterflies."
Still, the new study, along with another published in 2015, finds the opposite, at least for larger mammals. It's not clear if the animals are as healthy as normalbut their populations seem to be. And there's no noticeable difference in populations between the most and least contaminated areas.
Jim Beasley
"Without doubt, extremely high doses of radiation exposure can cause genetic damage," says Beasley. "But our data, combined with recent studies, suggest any potential negative effects to individuals are not sufficient to cause population-level declines in mammals inhabiting the exclusion zone."
Perhaps the same is true for animals farther away. The fallout from Chernobyl traveled as far as Scandinavia, and Germany; now, it's possible to find herds of radioactive reindeer in Norway and radioactive wild boars in Germany. Reindeer like to eat lichens and boars like to eat mushrooms, both foods that are heavily contaminated; now, when the animals are hunted, they're often too radioactive for humans to safely eat. (At Chernobyl, milk from a nearby farm was also found to be radioactive in a recent lab test.)
"Everything seems pretty normal, the birds are flying around and singing, and 20 miles up the road in a hot place, there's no birds. It's quiet."
The researchers behind the new study say that more research is needed to better understand the long-term effects of chronic exposure to radiation. Those effects will continue for a very long time: Even though this year marks the half-life of cesium-137 in Chernobyl (the amount left in the area has dropped by half since the accident), there will continue to be radiation in the area for centuries. Plutonium in the area is decaying into a more toxic isotopeamericium-241so in some ways, the zone is actually becoming more contaminated over time.
"Over the last three decades Chernobyl has served as an important living laboratory in which scientists can better understand effects of chronic radiation exposure on organisms," says Beasley. "While these studies have greatly advanced our understanding of the effects of radiation exposure on biota, this remains an important area of research, and so Chernobyl undoubtedly will serve as an important system to study radiation effects for decades to come."
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: What Does The New CRISPR-Edited Mushroom Mean For Agriculture?
description: The mushrooms of the future may last a little longer on the shelf, and a certain type of corn will have better yields. The white button mushroom and waxy corn were the first foods edited with CRISPR-Cas9a gene-editing techniqueto get a pass from the USDA: the agency won't regulate them before they can be sold.
CRISPR makes it simple to target a gene and delete it, or paste in another. By snipping a gene out of the mushroom's genome, a researcher from Penn State was able to develop a new variety with less activity from the enzyme that makes white mushrooms turn brown if they're cut.
Penn Statethe only university that still has mushroom professorswas approached by the CEO of a mushroom company, who was worried about the problem of browning, which causes food waste both in the industry and when consumers take mushrooms home.
"When the industry is picking mushrooms, they have to handle them very carefully," says Yinong Yang, the plant pathologist at Penn State who developed the mushroom. "Even for retaillet's say, those sliced mushroomsit will help, because even after a few days, when they are still good, they start browning."
Yang points out the mushroom will eventually brownit's an "anti-browning" mushroom, but it still does change color after time. "We reduced the enzyme activity by 30% or a little more," he says. "You need more to keep it white. But you can't eliminate all enzyme activity, because that is not necessarily good ... if you totally eliminate it, you might have detrimental effects, like the mushroom may not grow well, or may be susceptible to pathogens, things like that."
The common white button mushroom, which is produced mainly in Pennsylvania, was actually cultivated after a mushroom farmer in the 1920s discovered some all-white mushrooms in his mushroom bed. In other words, it was a chance mutation that happened to reduce enzyme activity.
The new version of the mushroom is functionally no different than something that might have also mutated naturally. But CRISPR made the change simpler. "It would be hard to find this kind of mutation, because the mutation on the surface is a little easier to spot," Yang says. "For this one, you'd have to cut thousands of these mushrooms, and you probably won't find it."
When Yang sent a letter of inquiry to the USDA about the new mushroom, after several months, they replied that the mushroom wouldn't fall under their scope of regulating genetically modified foods. That's because the agency uses a peculiar test: If a new food is made with a "plant pest" such as bacteria or a virus, then the USDA has oversight under the Plant Protection Act of 2000. When the U.S. first developed its regulatory framework, most GMOs used the so-called plant pests in production. Now, they don'tso the law doesn't apply. The FDA doesn't evaluate plants for safety (it's up to the producer not to put something unsafe on the market).
"It would be hard to find this kind of mutation. For this one, you'd have to cut thousands of these mushrooms, and you probably won't find it."
The new waxy corn, which is being developed by DuPont Pioneer and may be in fields in five years, got a pass a few days after the mushroom under the same reasoningno "plant pests" were involved. Waxy corn is better at making starch, both for food and for adhesives, than typical corn, but it usually has poorer yields. The new version can improve the yield to match other types of corn.
The Plant Protection Act was first developed to prevent plant pests or weeds from spreading, not GMOs. For regulators, in the beginning, it happened to be a way to squeeze GMOs into the purview of the USDA. But it was an artificial construct: If a company used Agrobacterium, a common bacteria used in genetic engineering in the past (and a so-called plant pest), it might have to spend millions to get through the regulatory process. Others, who used a "gene gun" instead to alter a plant, would not have been regulated at all. The same is true for modern techniques like CRISPR.
"It really was artificialit didn't really trigger on whether there was additional risk or unique risks associated with a genetically engineered crop. It was the process used to transform the thing," says Alison van Eenennaam, a cooperative extension specialist and expert on genetic engineering from the University of California-Davis.
Now, the USDA is fundamentally reconsidering how it regulates GMOs, and considering making its authority greaterpossibly encompassing even older techniques, like mutagenesis, that have never been regulated in the past.
But should the USDA be regulating a mushroom that's genetically identical to something that could have appeared through a natural mutation? The well-documented public fear of GMOs isn't backed up by science. And CRISPR has the potential to help solve a long list of problems in feeding the world.
CRISPR-edited crops could resist drought, fight plant diseases, and, like the new corn, improve yields. Other foods, like CRISPR-edited lean pork developed by researchers, could be healthier or avoid overused antibiotics. If regulation on CRISPR foods follows the same path as some GMOs, we could be waiting a long time to eat it; the first genetically engineered salmon took two decades to get approval. In the meantime, the world population is growing, and agriculture can't keep up.
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: See Which Parts Of The World Still Run On Fossil Fuels With This Interactive Map
description: Despite the meteoric growth of renewable energy, it's still a small slice of the world's electricity. A new map shows exactly how small: Flick off the switches for power coming from fossil fuels or nuclear plants, and most of the globe goes dark.
Two-thirds of global energy comes from fossil fuels, and 22% comes from renewables. Seven countries run on 100% renewable power, while 14 others run completely on fossil fuels.
GoCompare
But the map, from a British website called GoCompare, looks different than it would have a few years ago, thanks to the falling price of wind and solar power, and it's going to keep quickly changing. In 2015, 68% of all new energy capacity installed in the United States was renewable. China installed a record amount of wind and solar power last year and plans to increase it by another 21% in 2016. By 2020, China plans to quadruple its solar power.
India wants to increase solar energy from a little more than 3 gigawatts (GW) to 100 GW by 2020; in total, the country plans to have 175 GW of installed renewable power in just a few years. (To put that in perspective, the total amount of renewable energy added in 2015in the entire worldwas 152 GW.)
Of course, things could be changing even faster. One group of researchers says that it's technically feasible for the world to run on 80% wind, hydro, and solar power by 2030and 100% renewables by 2050.
Cover Photo: Flickr user Rennett Stowe
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Third-Generation Electric Bike Takes The Hell Out Of Commuting
description: Electric bikes have a reputation for being clunky, inelegant machines. So, the first thing I notice about the new VanMoof Electrified S is how it's not clunky or inelegant at all. The aluminum commuter bike weighs 40 pounds. But it feels light and balanced, and it looks terrific. The brushed metal frame hides all the cables and there's a guard over the chain, so you don't get your pants dirty.
And that's before you start moving. Once aboard, riding feels almost effortless. With a few clicks of the pedal assist controla button on the bar between your legsyou're soon whizzing along at 15 mph. And there's a booster button on the left handle in case you need a little extra help getting up any hills.
(Your browser doesn't support iframe)The new VanMoof Electrified Swhich I rode recently in Brooklynis the third generation of the Amsterdam company's e-bike line, and it incorporates some improvements from the previous model, which appeared in 2014. The battery lasts longer (up to 70 miles), the LED lights are brighter (a very decent 13 lumens) and the cables are laid out internally so you can't break them, even if you twist the handlebars around.
I was initially skeptical about the $3,000 price-tag ($2,298 on preorder). But VanMoof's Brent van Assen made a good case for it. The Electrified S is a commuting bike designed for longish distances (say 10 miles), he says. So, it's more useful than a normal bike, and you're less likely to get sweaty riding it. In other words, you can compare it to a scooter, which easily cost $3,000. Plus, the model has some anti-theft features, like an app-controlled lock, and it comes with a GPS tracking system, so you can always locate it with the accompanying app.
The pedal-assist feature has four settings, giving you between 20% and 80% help, depending on how lazy you're feeling. It charges up to 90% in about three hours and fully to 100% overnight. Van Assen says the battery will probably need to be replaced in three years, depending on how often you commute with it.
All in all, the comparison to a Teslawhich several reviews have madedidn't seem outlandish. The Electrified S is a sleek, beautifully designed specimen and it seems like the future of the breed. If you want to commute to work over a decent distance and don't want to pedal the whole way, this is the bike you aspire to.
This article was written by Ben Schiller from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Breaking Down 2,000 Movies By Whether Men Or Women Speak More
description: How many movies are about men, and how many about women? How could you even find out? It's pretty obvious when you watch, say, Die Hard, that it's about men, but how can you quantify, classify, and compare all the movies Hollywood makes?
Hanah Anderson and Matt Daniels did it using dialog, in an almost absurdly painstaking study.
"So we Googled our way to 8,000 screenplays and matched each character's lines to an actor. From there, we compiled the number of words spoken by male and female characters across roughly 2,000 films, arguably the largest undertaking of script analysis, ever."
The results are presented in some impressive but confusing infographics, to which you could lose a good few hours, like I did. The data sources are listed in a Google Docs spreadsheet, the raw data is available from Github, and there's an FAQ on the methodology, which answers most nitpicks.
(Your browser doesn't support iframe)Anderson and Daniels took every character with 100 or more lines of dialog, and mapped them to the actual actor's page on IMDb. This was done to improve accuracy, "because minor characters are poorly labeled on IMDb pages." Even so, there are several factors that make 100% accuracy difficultthe finished movie may differ from the referenced script, for example. Or, says the authors, a movie may have an important character that has relatively little dialog, skewing the results. Despite these issues, the authors say, "We believe the results are still directionally accurate, but individual films will definitely have errors."
The first interestingthough not particularly shockingresult is that movies are almost all male dominated. "Across thousands of films in our dataset, it was hard to find a subset that didn't over-index male. Even romantic comedies have dialogue that is, on average, 58% male." This is because there are lots of male supporting characters.
What about women in lead roles?
"In 22% of our films, actresses had the most amount of dialogue (i.e., they were the lead). Women are more likely to be in the second place for most amount of dialogue, which occurs in 34% of films. The most abysmal stat is when women occupy at least two of the top three roles in a film, which occurs in 18% of our films. That same scenario for men occurs in about 82% of films."
The study also looked at the age of actors in movies. The result is pretty obvious when you look at this one chart.
As men age, they get more dialog. As women age, they get less. This quantifies what we already know based on watching filmsthere are way fewer roles for aging women than for aging men. In fact, older men seem to get better and more interesting roles than younger men.
The Movies
Of the 2,000 screenplays, only two had 100% female dialog: Now and Then and The Descent. In contrast, you'll find 54 100% male movies, including Stand By Me and There Will Be Blood. The chart shows that Hollywood has a clear bias toward male-dominated movies.
Broken down by genre, things get worse. Take action movies. In Charlie's Angels, a movie with three female leads, women only get 66% of the dialog. Only Catwoman beats itsat 68%with no movie getting close to 100%. There are 12 100% male movies. Interestingly, while horror movies still skew male, there are proportionally more female-dominated horror films than in comedy. In fact, one of the 100% female films is a horror flickThe Descent. Drama, a genre that you might think of as more neutral, gender-wise, is equally heavily biased toward male dialog, with few female-driven titles.
I took some of the "most male" and "most female" movies and looked up their popularity. I used Rotten Tomatoes for the score. For the top 10 movies, I included all the 100% female films, then worked down through the highest percentiles. Because there are so many male movies, and no way to sort the data, I grabbed them in order, from the top of the list.
Female Movies
Male Movies
The first thing that jumps out of these charts is that the 100% male movies are almost all highly rated, whereas the top 10 female movies list contains some real dogs, critically. Martyrs, a movie with 97% female dialog, only managed a 52% rating on the Tomatometer. That's not really surprising, when you read the movie's tagline:
"A real polarizing movie, this Gallic torture-porn is graphic, brutal, nasty, and gruesome and not to everyone's taste."
By contrast, the male top 10 is (mostly) full of classics. Clearly this is because there are so many more titles to choose from on the male side of things, but that only illustrates how bad the situation is.
Are things getting better, at least? Decade by decade, the percentage of female dialog has increased. In the 1980s, there were just 11 films in the 60% to 90% female dialog range, where the bulk of movies fall. In the 1990s, the number rose to 33; in the 2000s, 53; and in this decade so far, we already have 57 female-dominated movies. That's great, but this decade there have already been 67 movies over in the 90%+ male category, which is more than all the female-skewed movies added together.
Movies that are firmly 100% male are fine, of course. After all, this is storytelling, and stories don't always need to be balanced. But it would be nice to see more movies with strong female roles, or all-female casts, if only because it would make the stories more interesting. One of the best side effects of the recent rise of LGBTQ characters and storylines in TV series has been the life they've injected into the stories. Even tired, old TV plot ideas become interesting again when explored from a different point of view. If nothing else, more female roles in movies could allow Hollywood to recycle its back catalog once again. That's a cynical take, but also a realistic one.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: 21 Easy and Delicious Whole30 Dinner Recipes
description: If you missed our Whole30 breakfast recipe roundup, heres a simple refresher of what the program is all about. Designed to be a monthlong reboot for your body, the Whole30 aims to cleanse and renourish your system through a complete detox from packaged and otherwise processed or preservative-containing edibles. It seems easy enough (just eat real food!), but several additional off-limits groupslike dairy, grains, and sugar of any kindmake finding compliant recipes extra challenging (who knew there was sugar in chili sauce?!).
So if you, like many Whole30 eaters, find yourself in a roast chicken or kale salad rut when dinner oclock rolls around, dont freak out or give up. Here are 21 easy but fun recipes to put you on your way to a better evening meal.
PoultryPhoto: Whole Fork1. Thai Chicken with Spicy Peanut Sauce
A Thai-inspired stir-fry sounds innocent enough (veggies! meat! dairy-free!), but it can be a minefield of Whole30 no-no's, such as soy sauce, honey, and peanut butter. This recipe gets around those roadblocks, subbing in coconut aminos for the soy, a mashed date for sweetness, and sunflower butter as a vitamin E-rich replacement for the peanutty stuff.Photo: The Laughing Spatula2. Roasted Lemon Chicken With Potatoes and Rosemary
Already a pretty clean meal, the classic chicken and potatoes dish doesnt need too much tweaking to become Whole30 compliant. Translation: It's a great way to ease yourself into the plan. Just spruce up the protein with a spritz of lemon and the carbs with garlic and rosemary (another cant-be-beat combo), and youve got a succulent dinner thatll make you forget you gave up anything at all.Photo: Little Bits Of3. Chicken Balance Bowl
This fresh bowl has all our salad favoriteschicken, sweet potato, and avocadoand a sauce so good youll want to make extra and keep it in the fridge. (Just double-check that the tahini you go with has no added sugar so it's Whole30 approved.) A delicious dinner whipped up in 30 minutes? Were sold.Photo: Food Faith Fitness4. Mango Chicken With Coconut Cauliflower Rice
This recipe makes two clever swaps: The first is cauliflower "rice" instead of the usual white grain, and the second is tapioca flour as breading for the chicken. Add ginger and trusty coconut aminos to round out this healthier version of a take-out classic. Genius.Photo: The Organic Kitchen5. Jalapeno Turkey Burger
With gluten, dairy, and even ketchup out of the picture, youve got to get creative to make burgers taste good. Here, guacamole, a poached egg, and jalapeos up the ante.
SeafoodPhoto: Creme de la Crumb6. Grilled Salmon With Mango Salsa
No restrictions on healthy fats while on the Whole30! And thank goodness for that, because we have a feeling you wouldnt be able to stay away from this cholesterol-slashing, omega-packed dish. Flaky salmon with a chunky mango salsa? Irresistible.Photo: The Healthy Foodie7. White Fish Fillet With Braised Fennel
Not counting salt and pepper, there are only three ingredients in this dish. Plus the large fillet of white fish makes for a super-filling protein source. Pair it with fennelthe vitamin C-heavy cousin of carrotsfor an easy but elegant dinner.Photo: A Clean Plate8. Shrimp and Asparagus Stir-Fry
Coconut oil lends an appropriately tropical taste (not to mention antimicrobial benefits) to the shrimp in this light, brothy stir-fry. Simply seasoned with lemon, ginger, and garlic, it's the 15-minute clean meal you can throw together no matter how tired you are after a busy day.Photo: Grazed & Enthused9. Triple Seafood Chowder
This hearty coconut milk-based bowl features not one, not two, but three types of seafood. Salmon, shrimp, and kippers check off a range of nutritional boxes, from niacin to essential fatty acids. The coconut cream in the broth keeps it rich, and while there may not be any noodles here, the herby addictiveness makes it slurp worthy.Photo: Tastes Lovely10. Blackened Cajun Mahi Mahi
This recipe calls for a few more spices than you might normally stock, but each will go a long way in flavoring the fish. And yes, you'll undoubtedly find yourself using them for other recipes while on the Whole30. Use them here for a rub to slather onto brainpower-enhancing mahi-mahi fillets before the fish gets seared and topped with sliced avocado.
Other MeatsPhoto: A Healthy Life for Me11. Skillet Beef Fajitas
This homey Tex-Mex favorite is packed with veggies and a spicy kick. Throw everything in a skillet, and youll be done in 30 minutes. Just make sure your broth of choice is Whole30 approved (or if youre game, make it from scratch).Photo: Real Food Whole Life12. Sweet Potato and Pineapple Beef Bowls
A hearty salad bowl can be the perfect quick fix when you dont feel like getting out the pots and pans. This one gets its sweetness from pineapple and mango. Just be sure you opt for the real thing (not the canned versions) to avoid added sugars.Photo: I Heart Naptime13. Hearty Vegetable Soup
With only one tablespoon of olive oil in the entire six-serving recipe, this may be a lower fat dish, but its no "diet" soup. Packed with potatoes, lean ground beef, and chunky tomato sauce, its a filling and nutritious dinner thats also easy to make in big batches. Hello, easy weeknight meal.Photo: Gluten Free Fix14. Pork Roast With Sweet Potatoes, Apples, and Onion
Instead of sugary or preservative-laden applesauce, this Whole30 makeover of the favorite pork and apple combo uses fresh chunks of the fruit, roasting it for a naturally sweet side to the protein. With diced sweet potato pitching in for some additional carb action, this meaty dish scores plenty of produce points.Photo: Planks, Love & Guacamole15. Balsamic and Basil Marinated Steak With Roasted Red Pepper Pesto
With just 10 main ingredients, skirt steak gets elevated from mere hunks of meat to seared strips loaded with flavorand a ton of muscle-aiding iron. Soaked in a tangy marinade before generous dollops of the zippy (and nondairy!) red pepper pesto are spooned on top, its got to be one of the most photogenic Whole30 meals ever.Photo: Grits and Chopsticks16. Lamb, Mint Chimichurri, and Butternut "Rice"
Cauliflower isnt the only veggie you can morph into rice-like granules! Butternut squash also makes an awesome substitute for the grain. Here its made all buttery and wonderful with the addition of ghee (yup, enjoy ghee with glee!) and then topped with grilled lamb and drizzled with a fresh, herby chimichurri. This is dinner party-worthy stuff.Photo: Physical Kitchness17. Tomato Basil Beef Goulash With Eggplant
A traditionally Hungarian goulash takes a page out of an Italian cookbook in this bloggers version, trading in the dishs trademark paprika and caraway seeds for basil and garlic, and potatoes for eggplant. Whisking in the cream from the top of a can of coconut milk makes it extra luscious while keeping to the Whole30s no-dairy rule.
MeatlessPhoto: Wicked Spatula18. Paleo Eggs in Hell
Eating clean, real foods on the Whole30 doesnt mean splurging on pricey or obscure ingredients. Take this dinner, which turns a modest ingredient list into a protein-rich dish that, contrary to its name, tastes pretty heavenly. The blogger serves it with bread to sop up the sauce, but its perfect on its own.Photo: Food Faith Fitness19. Zucchini Noodles With Everything Pesto and Fried Eggs
If spiralized zucchini never seemed like an adequate pasta alternative before, maybe this recipe will convince you. Lathered in a dairy-free pesto and topped with a fried egg, the zoodles are every bit as tasty as real spaghetti but with none of the gluten and a fraction of the carbs.Photo: My Whole Food Life20. Slow Cooker Ratatouille Soup
With a whopping eight different veggies, this may as well be called "the one-stop stew for your daily recommended fiber and vitamin intake" (although "ratatouille soup" sounds much more appetizing). The produce is cooked down in a mix of its own juices and fruity olive oil, yielding a large batch that will have dinner covered for days.Photo: A Calculated Whisk21. Sweet Potato and Kale Gratin
This gratin may be grain-free, gluten-free, and dairy-free, but it makes no compromises when it comes to flavor. A coconut milk-based cream sauce, fragrant with nutmeg, and an entire head of garlic (cant have too much of those heart-healthy and anti-tumor benefits!), gets slathered generously between layers of sweet potato disks and kale for a one-pan dinner thats light and decadent all at once.
This article was written by Anisha Jhaveri from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: How to Care Less Without Being Careless
description: I was dashing out of the office, excited to meet a friend for a chilled martini at a rooftop bar after a crazy day at work. As I leapt into the elevator, my manager was coming out. Calling it early today, Susie? she said, cocking an eyebrow. It was 5:31 p.m. Was she serious?As the elevator doors closed, I felt stung and a little confused. I had been working my ass off and was a lead seller on the team. Why did my manager care so much about my hours? Over our drinks, my friend and I decided that she chose the stupidest things to care about: staying late in the office, the appearance of hard work over actual hard work, and outward shows of dedication. All this superficial stuff over substance, sincerity, and results. Although I knew all of this, her comment still bothered me.
To survive in this world, you have to care less about little encounters like this and the many other trivialities that irk us every day. You have to know who you are and be OK with what you do. Caring less will ensure your own sanity and survival.
But this is not to be confused with being careless. Careless people dont pull their weight. Careless people are complacent, even negligent. They dont necessarily respect others or give a sh*t about their contribution to a team, family, or friendship.
Its about doing your best and not sweating the rest.
Being carefree, or caring less, is quite the opposite. Its caring about the stuff that counts and losing the nonsense that doesnt. Its about doing your best and not sweating the rest. Doing this ensures your best gets better too, because your energy isn't used on unimportant crap. You can care deeply about the significant stuff without the worry that weighs down many high achievers with a need to please others and be perfect.
Heres how you can be true to yourself, maintain your integrity, and care just the right amount.1. Know thyself.
To know what to care about, you need to know what you value. What you value trumps all elseperiod. Let this be your guiding light when you make decisions.
Do you care about being a mentor to junior staff at work? Great, go for it. Do you care about streamlining office procedures into an organized, efficient flow? Brilliant, take charge! Do you care about sitting in non-mandatory internal meetings (trying to keep your eyes open) where you seem to always leave none the wiser and simply an hour older? No? Well, bow out politely. People can say what they willyoull be too busy doing the real work that matters to you. And this attitude and focus will probably get you noticed too.
2. Give up perfection.
No ones perfect. Weve all heard it one million times. And yet we all secretly strive for it, then blast ourselves on occasion when we fall short, right?
Heres how I push through the perfection trap: I have a collection of videos on my website. Guess how many Ive watched all the way through? Zero. Whenever I view a snippet, I see so many mistakes and things Id do differently I actually cringe. But I still shoot them, post them, and share them. My husband checks them first to watch for any major mishaps (and I even make him wear headphones!).
You dont have to get it perfect, you just have to get it going.
I care about two things: what I'm talking about and sharing information I believe can benefit others. If I do those two things, my work is done. To me, thats caring the right amount. If I were waiting for perfection, I would never record a single word. And I refuse to let my fear, vanity, or ego rule my output.
In this case, caring less can make you a creative machine. And as the old saying goes: You dont have to get it perfect, you just have to get it going.
3. Remember the word no.
When you commit to caring less about the things that dont matter to you, you reach a dangerously high level of blissful personal freedom. This can include declining professional projects, turning down personal invitations, and even giving yourself a freakin break if you decide to not work out on a Saturday morning. In the practical parody, The Life Changing Magic of Not Giving a F*ck, Sarah Knight writes, The life-changing magic of not giving a f*ck is all about prioritizing. Choose joy over annoy.
Saying no to more things that dont make you money, make you better, or make you happy is the cornerstone of living a joyful life. Ask yourself: What can you say no to this week?
If (like most people) you struggle to say no, heres my favorite way to say it:
Claire, I would love to come to your bachelorette in Vegas/look at your resume/have coffee with your acquaintance, but have to say no because I have a lot on my plate right now. I dont want to commit to something I cant give my full attention to.
If there is an alternative, offer itlike an intro to someone else or an offer of help in a smaller way. Otherwise I keep it loving, swift, and short. Bonus: Over time, people request less of you as you inadvertently teach them to respect your time. This is like heaven on a platter. An empowered, loving no is respectable. MartyrdomIm always the first to help, Im such a good friend, blah, blah, blahis not.
The Takeaway
When you care about the things that matter and not the millions of things in the universe that will suck your energy/time/money/sanity, you live a different life. Nothing made me happier than realizing this when I recently turned down a consulting project that would've made me stressed, unhappy, and overworked. I mulled over it for hours (and talked my poor husband to death about it), and I still felt uncertain about my choice.
Then one bright and sunny weekday afternoon, my dog and I went for a spontaneous walk. We strolled through the park then sat outside at a caf where I ordered a glass of ros. It wasnt even 4 p.m.
Sitting there with my dog, my wine, and my free afternoon felt blissful, even naughty. Is this why I turned down that job? I asked myself, looking at my dog snoozing contently in the sun. Yes. Yes, it was. I love caring less.
Susie Moore is Greatists life coach columnist and a confidence coach in New York City. Sign up for her free weekly wellness tips on her website and check back every Tuesday for her latest No Regrets column!
This article was written by Susie Moore from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: I Tried to Be a Morning Person for 30 Days. Here's What Worked (and What Didn't)
description: If you spend any time online, you'll inevitably come across an article (or 15) spelling out steps to reach the near-mythical status of becoming a morning person.
It all sounds so simple: Stop hitting snooze. Set a positive intention for the day. Open the drapes and let the sunlight stream in. Easy enough, right?
For me, not so much. Im not a morning person and never have been. I could sleep until noon in college. Class at 8 a.m.? No chance. Now Im fortunate to work in an industry where work doesnt really begin until 9 or 10 a.m., so I usually wake up around 8 a.m. (save for the rare morning workout).
Still, the idea of becoming an early bird has always intrigued me. As I attempted to fit more into my dayswork, a social life, exercise, and some necessary alone timeI realized there was only one way to keep up with all my obligations without losing my mind: wake up earlier. Plus, research shows morning people tend to be happier and more agreeable.1
One month ago I set a goal to wake up at 6:30 a.m. every weekday (I let myself sleep utill 8 a.m. on weekends). I did my research, read countless articles, and sourced advice from early-bird friends. Here are the tips that workedand the ones that didn't.1. Make a schedule.
I know what youre thinking, because I thought the same thing: I cant possibly get up earlier because I have zero willpower. But it turns out morning people arent using willpower to rise and shine; theyre using habits.
Habits eliminate the need for self-control, writes Gretchen Rubin in her book Better Than Before. Habits make change possible by freeing us from decision-making.
In other words, early risers don't think about getting upthey just do it. A friend echoed this idea when I asked him how the hell he woke up at 4:30 a.m. to work out. "It's not a question; I just do it," he told me.
The most effective way to wake up early is to go to bed early.
To help establish this new habit, I followed the advice of Jeff Sanders, a productivity coach and author of The 5 A.M. Miracle: Dominate Your Day Before Breakfast. He suggests creating a nightly schedule. After all, the most effective way to wake up early is to go to bed early, Sanders says.
Sanders's "stop time" is 8 p.m., when he turns off all technology (to avoid melatonin-suppressing blue light) and starts preparing for bed.2 Since I wasn't trying to wake up at 5 a.m. (!), I designated 9:30 p.m as mine. I entered my new routine into my calendar and set alerts on my phone to pop up at each increment. (Another tip from productivity pros? If it's on the calendar, it happens.)
9:30 p.m.: Start getting ready for bed.
10 p.m.: Get in bed.
10-10:30 p.m.: Read! (Something I'd never made time to doa nice benefit of going to sleep early.)
10:30 p.m.: Turn lights off.
6:30 a.m.: Wake up after eight hours of sleep!
The Verdict: Giving myself a bedtime was surprisingly tough. (I don't think I've had one since age 10, and man, did I hate it back then.) That said, I really liked following a schedule. The alerts helped me remember to get ready for bed when I'd otherwise continue watching TV or messing around online.
However I'm a 27 year old living in New York City, so a few nights per week I'd still be out at drinks or dinner with friends at 9:30 p.m. and simply ignored the alerts. Other nights I couldn't fall asleep at 10:30 p.m., so I'd just keep reading or break the no-screen rule and scroll through Instagram. In these cases, I let myself sleep in the next morning.
This is OK. Life happens. Plus, much of the advice suggests making the shift gradually. So after one week, I moved my bedtime back to 11 p.m. and my wake-up time to 7 a.m. See ya one day, 6:30 a.m.
2. Wake up to natural sunlight.
Most morning-person articles stress how important it is to have natural sunlight. But I live in a small studio apartment with a windowless nook for sleeping. I know this sounds cozy, and it isuntil you want to wake up (theres basically zero morning light). To solve this problem, I tried the Philips Wake-Up Light, which claims to mimic a natural sunrise and gradually wake you up in a natural, refreshing way.
The Verdict: I wish I could say this worked, but the light from this lamp looked weird and artificial. And for some reason, it was accompanied by the sound of squawking seagulls. I couldn't figure out how to turn off the sound, so I just unplugged the whole thing. Hopefully one day I'll simply be able to open my blinds.3. Stop hitting snooze.
I know, its basically un-American to not hit snooze. (One survey found more than half of us do it every day.) But hitting snooze to get more sleep actually has the opposite effect: It makes you groggier by interrupting your bodys natural sleep cycles. Plus, its just not a great way to start your day: Snoozing inadvertently becomes a reactive choice, which leads to further reactivity, Sanders says. When you begin the day reacting to your environment instead of proactively shaping it, you find yourself on the defensive.
Snoozing inadvertently becomes a reactive choice, which leads to further reactivity.
I also read you should choose a pleasant alarm noisesomething soothing or fun, not a blaring beep. So I programmed my alarm to play Taylor Swifts "Blank Space" every morning at 7 a.m. (yes, for me that's fun).
The Verdict: Swearing off the snooze button was hard, and even though I really enjoyed waking up to T. Swift singing about Starbucks lovers, most mornings I'd still hit snooze once or twice. What did help: placing my phone farther away on a bookshelf at the end of my bed. If I had to get out of bed to turn off my alarm, I was more likely to actually stay up.
4. Work out first thing.
One productivity guru suggests doing the one thing you dread most right after you wake up. Thats because research shows willpower is strongest in the early a.m., then steadily depletes over the course of a day. This manifests itself in that ugh, its 6 p.m., and I dont feel like going to the gym feeling.
I aimed to exercise at least four mornings per week. I like to keep my evenings open for working, relaxing, or seeing friends, and I knew how much better and more accomplished I'd feel after getting my workout out of the way.
The Verdict: No. Just no. Forcing myself to go to the gym for a grueling workout right after waking up didn't make it any easier. But a 30-minute home workout was a lot more doable. (I did this video a few mornings and felt awesomeand sweatyafter.) I also learned that I really like having about 30 minutes before exercising to get my mind and body righthave a cup of coffee, wander around my apartment, even check my email.
After a couple weeks of at-home workouts, I was even able to catch a 7:30 a.m. class at my gym. Definitely beats rushing out the door five minutes after I wake up.
5. Do something positive and productive.
Getting out of bed on the right foot can impact your mood for the entire day, research shows. That's why experts suggest planning a healthy and positive activity. For some, this may be a workout, but I liked other simpler suggestions: meditating, writing down three things I'm grateful for, reading an uplifting article, or listening to an inspirational podcast. It could even be something as simple as enjoying a delicious cup of coffee or breakfast.
The Verdict: This actually worked! I started by simply spending some time thinking positively about what I had to look forward to that dayfinishing a project at work, a fun workout class, or date night.
Looking forward to these things helped boost my mood on mornings I was dragging.
After one week, I spent 15 or 30 minutes per morning reading a chapter of a self-help book; playing some uplifting music while cleaning my apartment; or, if I worked out, listening to a Tim Ferriss podcast on the way to work. Looking forward to these things helped boost my mood on mornings I was dragging. A few times I even stopped by a coffee shop before work to read and savor a latte. A great cup of coffee + a great book = a great way to start the day.
Something else that worked? Having something to look forward to in the evening. If I had an obligation that prevented me from working out after workdinner with a friend, happy hour with coworkers, a concertthat became far and away the biggest incentive to get up and get things done in the morning.
The Takeaway
Becoming a morning person was a lot tougher than I thought it would be. I am definitely not there yet, and I'd say I've stuck to my plan maybe three or four nights per week (max).
But Im OK with that. Studies suggest that only around 18 percent of people are truly "morning types," while 27 percent are "evening types." The majority of us fall somewhere in between.
The trick to becoming a morning person, it seems, isn't so much about finding the right alarm clock or filling your bedroom with natural light and birdsong, but it's simply going to sleep earlier. Which isn't always so easy to do.
After my monthlong experiment, I feel like I know what helps me the most: following a bedtime routine, placing my T. Swift alarm farther from my bed, and doing something positive with my extra time in the morning. Fun evening plans are also always a good incentive. For the most part, though, I am totally accepting that Im neither a lark nor an owl but happily right in between.
Works Cited
Happy as a lark: morning-type younger and older adults are higher in positive affect. Biss RK, Hasher L. Emotion (Washington, D.C.), 2012, Feb.;12(3):1931-1516.
The impact of light from computer monitors on melatonin levels in college students. Figueiro MG, Wood B, Plitnick B. Neuro endocrinology letters, 2011, Sep.;32(2):0172-780X.
This article was written by Locke Hughes from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Is Why Being Ghosted Hurts So Much
description: Boo! No, not that kind of ghost. We're talking about the verb form, when someone you've been dating stops returning your texts and calls. It's most common in the first few months of a relationship, but that doesn't make it feel any less shitty. As this video from Bustle explains, we let down our guards when we're in relationships (it's a central part of attachment theory), so when someone completely falls off the map, it can leave us filled with an inner monologue of self-doubt. It doesn't help that as humans, we're wired to seek out explanations for everything.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: This Gorgeous, Sustainable "Leather" Is Made From Pineapple Waste
description: When leather expert Carmen Hijosa visited the Philippines to consult with the leather industry there, she discovered two big problems: The leather was poor quality, and producing it was bad both for the local environment and the people involved.
But as she traveled around the country, she had an epiphany. The Philippines grows a lot of pineapplesand ends up with a lot of wasted pineapple leaves. The leaves, she realized, had certain features that might make it possible to turn them into a plant-based leather alternative.
"It's very fine," Hijosa says. "It has very good strength and flexibility, which is really what we need to make a non-woven substrate." She also looked at other local plants, such as banana fibers and sisal. But only pineapple fibers were strong and flexible enough to handle the manufacturing process she had in mind.
Hijosa left her work in the traditional leather industry and spent the next seven years at the Royal College of Art in London, developing the material into a patented product while she earned a PhD. Now running a startupat age 63she's ramping up manufacturing of her pineapple-based leather, called Piatex.
While the "leather" doesn't harm animals, it also has clear advantages for the environmentcompared both to real leather and to other synthetic leathers. "It's created from a byproduct of agriculture, meaning it's a total waste product," she says. "This really means that in order to have Piatex, a textile, we don't have to use any land, water, pesticides, fertilizers ... we are actually taking a waste material and 'upscaling' it, meaning that we're giving it added value."
Making animal-based leather typically involves hazardous chemicals such as formaldehyde and heavy metals such as chrome, all of which can cause problems when they end up in wastewater. Like meat, since leather comes from animals that require massive amounts of feed, it also has a large carbon footprint. Fake leather is usually made from petroleum, and has processing problems of its own.
Because pineapple leaves would normally be wasted, turning them into leather is an extra source of income for farmers. After farmers take the first step in processing the leaves, separating the long fibers, they also end up with biomass that can be used as fertilizer back in the pineapple fields.
Hijosa worked with local factories to set up production. "We're developing the supply chain, which is why this is such a complex and also interesting process," she says. At factories, the material is made into rolls that can be used for shoes, handbags, car or airplane seats, or anything else that would typically be made from real leather.
Plastic-based fake leathers are still popular, because petroleum is so cheap. But Hijosa believes that is starting to change as consumers become more interested in where things come from.
"Within a fast-evolving fashion industry which is more and more driven by the success of fast fashion brands, production keeps accelerating and puts priority on quantity rather than quality," she says. "However, trend analysis tends to show a change in customers' mindset ... people pay more and more attention to who, how, where and when the clothes we wear are made."
Her startup, Ananas Anam, has built its production from 500 meters to 2,000 meters, and in three months, she expects the next batch to be around 8,000 meters. But as the company's capacity grows, demand is already outpacing supply. Companies like Puma and Camper have made prototypes with the material, and others are already using it.
"It seems that it is the right product at the right time, because we are getting constant demand from all levels of the marketfrom multinationals to specialist stores, early adopters, and vegan companies looking for alternatives to leather," she says. "We're starting to get out there in the market."
This article was written by Adele Peters from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Here's Why You Never Get A Good Sleep The First Night In A New Place
description: Like a pirate sleeping with one eye open, half of our brain stays awake when we sleep in a new place for the first time. If you ever had a rocky first night when on vacation, or if you're a rock star on tour who never sleeps, or sleeps well, in the same bed twice, now you know why.
The phenomenon, known about for some time, is called First-Night Effect, or FNE, and researchers may have just figured out what causes it. Or at least how it works.
The researchers, from Brown University, hooked up their test subjects to various brain-monitoring devices while they slept. What they found was that, on the first night in the lab, half of the brain stayed awake (in most, but not all, cases, the left hemisphere). Specifically, during deep sleep, the "default-mode network" stayed active. This is a circuit in the brain that is active when we're not engaged in a taskwe may be day dreaming, or thinking about others or ourselves, for example.
Flickr user Jacob Stewart
The researchers found that when the default-mode network was switched on, subjects experienced more "arousals"that is, they partially woke up more often. The researchers also played high-pitched beeps into the subjects' ears. When they played them into the right ear (connected to the left side of the brain), they "prompted a significantly greater likelihood of waking, and faster action upon waking, than if sounds were played into the left ear to stimulate the right hemisphere."
The study only looked at the first phase of sleep, so it's not know whether the brain stays awake the whole night, or if it switches between hemispheres throughout the night.
The obvious explanation is that the brain is keeping alert, even while we sleep, listening out for danger when we're slumbering in unfamiliar territory, and we use a part of the brain that is used to idling along while the rest of the brain is at rest. Marine mammal and some birds use the same trick, say the researchers, but this kind of activity has never been reported in humans.
One of the authors, Yuki Sasaki, has some reassuring words for people who travel a lot, and may never spend more than one night in a new place. "Human's brains are very flexible," she said. "Thus, people who often are in new places may not necessarily have poor sleep on a regular basis."
The next stage for Sasaki and her team is to use something called "transcranial magnetic stimulation" to deactivate the wakeful circuit, to see if sleep can be improved. This might help frequent travelers, but it also sounds pretty scary, like the makings of the plot for an episode of Criminal Minds.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Booze and Bacon Were Linked to Cancer, but Here's Why You Shouldn't Panic
description: The World Cancer Research Fund International recently published a study linking alcohol and processed meat to an increased risk of stomach cancer. The report looked at the data from 89 different studies, which tested a total of 17 million people. But before you permanently swear off booze and bacon (gasp!), let's put some of the study's statements into perspective.
1. "There is strong evidence that consuming approximately three or more alcoholic drinks per day increases the risk of stomach cancer."
But they didn't find the same correlation in people who had one or two drinks per day, nor does the study specify how much your risk increases when you have three (or more). So yes, you can still enjoy a beer after work, but you probably shouldn't down the whole six-pack. (Keep in mind one standard drink is roughly 12 ounces of beer, 5 ounces of wine, or 1.5 ounces of spirits.)
2. "There is strong evidence that consuming processed meat increases the risk of stomach cancer."
The study concluded that for every 50 grams of processed meat you consume per day, your risk of stomach cancer increases by 18 percent. For reference, processed meat includes ham, bacon, pastrami, salami, and hot dogs, and 50 grams equates to roughly one hot dog or two to three strips of bacon.
But don't free all the pigs just yet. If you were to limit your processed meat intake to one hot dog per week, your estimated risk of cancer would increase by only 2.6 percent, according to the report. As with most things, moderation is key.
However, there is one statement from the study that backs an absolute takeaway: "Smoking is a cause of stomach cancer. It is estimated that 11 percent of cases worldwide are attributable to tobacco use." This is pretty straightforward: Smoking is bad for you. If you're ready to kick the habit, there are plenty of resources out there to help.
This article was written by Zach Watson from Greatist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Brazil's Mosquito-Killing Billboard Uses Fake Human Sweat To Trap Insects
description: Billboards may be ugly visual noise that pollutes our cityscapes and frazzles our brains with sensory overload, but they can also be used for good. For instance, how would you feel about an advertising billboard that attracts and kills mosquitos?
This Brazilian billboard does just that, by mimicking human sweat to lure in the little disease-carriers and then trapping them until they die of dehydration.
Designed by Brazilian ad agency Posterscope, the Mosquito Killer Billboard uses several mozzie-baiting tricks to attract the insects that are currently spreading the Zika virus throughout the country. The first is a combination of lactic acid and CO2, which replicates humans sweat and human breathing, both of which are used by mosquitos to locate their prey and can bring them in from up to 2.5 miles away. The billboard also uses fluorescent black lights to help attract them.
After that, it works like a regular trap. The mosquitos can get in, but they can't get out, and they buzz around inside until they expire, dehydrated, and are collected in a tray at the bottom of the billboard. The design is tailored to attract only the Zika-carrying mosquito. "We had to develop a solution that could guarantee that only Aedes aegypti mosquitoes would be attractednot other insects, only this specific one," says Posterscope's Otto Frossard.
Best of all, the blueprints for the design are being made available under a Creative Commons license for anyone to download and use. Calling the diagram a "blueprint" might be pushing it, thoughthe image wouldn't actually help you to build the billboard any better than my description of it above. But the Posterscope agency does promise technical help for anyone who wants to build their own, although the cost is currently around $2,800 per board.
The current panic in many countries is around the Zika virus, but killing mosquitos can also help protect against dengue fever and malaria. The best thing about this killer billboards, though, is that it takes two things people hateadvertising and blood-sucking insectsand combines them to make something great.
This article was written by Charlie Sorrel from Co. Exist and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: SALAD DAYS
description: Make-ahead salads turn take-along lunches into noontime treats SPRING IS THE season of new bring-your-own lunch challenges, what with soup and stew leftovers winding down as the weather warms up. If you're craving anything and everything fresh and green, hearty salads that serve two and can be prepared ahead are the solution. (After all, no one wants to be eating the same batch of quinoa salad Monday through Friday.) Put the components together, pack them up, and you can head out each morning with a midday meal to eat at your desk or take to a park bench to enjoy in the sunshine. CRUNCHY THAI SALAD WITH MARINATED TOFU SERVES 2 The longer tofu soaks in a tasty marinade, the better the flavor. We've applied that rule here by storing the tofu in the dressing you pour over the salad so that the dressing doubles as the marinade. For a bigger salad, include the optional sliced romaine lettuce.
cup Chili-Lime Dressing 8 oz. extra-firm tofu. drained 2 small romaine lettuce hearts. sliced -inch thick, optional
lb. red cabbage. thinly shaved (2 cups) 1 large carrot, shredded
cup frozen peas, thawed 1 Persian cucumber, thinly sliced 2 Tbs. slivered almonds
cup fresh mint leaves, minced 1 Prepare Chili-Lime Dressing (see recipe below). 2 Blot tofu between paper towels to remove surface moisture. Place in bowl, and set a heavy weight (such as a pot with a soup can inside) on top. Let drain 30 minutes in refrigerator. Biot once more, and cut into Vi-inch cubes. Place in lidded container, and pour Chili-Lime Dressing on top. Seal, and shake to combine. 3 Toss together romaine (if using), cabbage, carrot, peas, cucumber, almonds, and mint in large bowl. Add tofu and dressing, and toss to coat. PER SERVING 325 CAL; 18 G PROT; 17 G TOTAL FAT (2 G SAT FAT); 30 G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 842 MG SOD; 9 G FIBER; 14 G SUGARS CHILI-LIME DRESSING MAKES
CUP | 30 MINUTES OR LESS 1 Tbs. lime juice 1 Tbs. toasted sesame oil 1 Tbs. maple syrup 1
tsp. ume plum vinegar or red wine vinegar 1 jalapeo, seeded and chopped Combine all Ingredients in mini food processor or whisk together in small bowl until smooth. PER SERVING 91 CAL; <1G PROT; 7 G TOTAL FAT (1G SAT FAT); 8 G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 789 MG SOD; <1 G FIBER; 7 G SUGARS SHOPPING LIST *Optional ingredient Canned Goods, Dry Ingredients, and Seasonings 10 Tbs. slivered almonds 4 Tbs. roosted, hulled sunflower seeds
cup dried goji berries
cup quinoa
cup dry black lentils
cup cooked chickpeas, or half a 15-oz. con chickpeas
cup olive oil 1 Tbs. toasted sesame oil 1
tsp. ume plum vinegar 3 Tbs. mople syrup 1 tsp. Dijon mustard 4 Tbs. tahini 1 tsp. ground cumin Produce, Refrigerated and Frozen Items, and Dairy 1
lbs. small carrots (1 bunch) 1 large carrot
lb. Broccolini 2 small romaine lettuce hearts, optional' 1/8 lb. red cabbage 1 Persian cucumber 1 bunch fresh mint 5
cups baby spinach 5 packed cups baby kale 1 oz. sunflower sprouts 0 cup) 2 green apples 1 jalapeo chile 2 green onions
small avocado 2 lemons 1 lime 1
cups frozen peas 8 oz. extra-firm tofu 1 Tbs. yellow miso COOKING TIMELINE 1 Press tofu ond preheat oven 2 Prepare Chili-Lime, Zesty Lemon, and Cumin-Tahim dressings 3 Roast Broccolini and carrots on 2 baking sheets. 4 Cook quinoo ond black lentils In 2 medium soucepons. 5 Prep and chop oil vegetables while Broccolini, carrots, quinoo. ond lentils cool. 6 Halve all recipe components into two servings. Wrap servings of roasted vegetables in plastic wrap separate from salads, and place salads in lidded containers or reseoloble plastic bags Store dressings in jars or smoll containers for individual servings. MAKE AHEAD TIP Stored separately, the tofu marinating in the dressing and the salad will keep 5 days For maximum freshness when packing the salad for lunch, layer tofu and cabbage on the bottom, add the other salad elements with the almonds on top, and then toss to combine just before eating. FARMERS' MARKET QUINOA SALAD SERVES 2 Young spring carrots from the farmers' market are ideal for roasting, as they don't require much prep before hitting the pan. If your market has an additional vegetable or fruit that looks particularly enticing (like pea shoots or apricots), feel free to include it in this recipe.
lb. small carrots, halved and cut into 4-inch pieces 3 Tbs. Zesty Lemon Vinaigrette, divided
cup quinoa 4 cups baby spinach 1 green apple, cut into matchsticks 1 cup sunflower sprouts (1 oz.) 1 cup frozen peas, thawed 2 Tbs. roasted, hulled sunflower seeds 1 Reheat oven to 425F. Spread carrots on baking sheet, drizzle with 1 Tbs. Zesty Lemon Vinaigrette, and season with salt and pepper, if desired. Toss well to coat carrots with dressing, then cover tightly with foil. Roast 15 minutes. Remove foil and roast 5 to 10 minutes more, or until carrots are browned and tender. Cool. 2 Bring quinoa and 1 cup water to a boil in medium saucepan. Reduce heat to mediumlow, and simmer 15 minutes, or until quinoa is tender and water has evaporated. Let stand 5 minutes, then fluff with fork. Cool to room temperature. 3 Toss together spinach, apple, sprouts, peas, sunflower seeds, and quinoa in large bowl. 4 To assemble salad: Toss quinoa mixture with 2 Tbs. Zesty Lemon Vinaigrette and roasted carrots. PER SERVING 270 CAL; 8 G PROT; 13 G TOTAL FAT (2 G SAT FAT); 33 G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 118 MG SOD; 7 G FIBER; 10 G SUGARS MAKE-AHEAD TIP Salad components, except for apple, will keep 5 days in the fridge. Cut apple into matchsticks just before packing or serving. ZESTY LEMON VINAIGRETTE MAKES
CUP A touch of maple syrup sweetens this lemony vinaigrette just enough to make it to-die-for. Use extra vinaigrette for salads or as a dip.
cup olive oil 2 Tbs. maple syrup 2 Tbs. lemon juice 2 tsp. grated lemon zest 1 tsp. Dijon mustard Blend all ingredients in blender or food processor until combined. Season with salt and pepper, if desired. PER SERVING 149 CAL; <1G PROT; 14 G TOTAL FAT (2 G SAT FAT); 8 G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 32 MG SOD; <1G FIBER; 6 G SUGARS CUMIN-TAHINI DRESSING MAKES 2/3 CUP Tahini sesame paste gives this dressing a rich, creamy texture that's great for coating salad fixings. 4 Tbs. tahini paste 2 Tbs. lemon juice 1 Tbs. yellow miso 1 tsp. ground cumin Whisk together all ingredients plus 2 Tbs. water in small bowl. Add 1 Tbs. water if needed to thin (depending on natural thickness of tahini). PER 1-TBS. SERVING 40 CAL; 1 G PROT; 3 G TOTAL FAT (<1 G SAT FAT); 2 G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 79 MG SOD; <1G FIBER; <1G SUGARS BABY KALE AND BLACK LENTIL SALAD SERVES 2 Black lentils hold their shape and retain a firm texture when cooked, which makes them the perfect addition to salads made with hearty greens like baby kale. Goji berries make a slightly sweet, antioxidant-rich addition, softening as the salad sits, but you can also substitute other dried fruits for the same effect.
cup dry black lentils 5 packed cups baby kale
cup dried goji berries or cranberries 2 Tbs. roasted sunflower seeds, hulled 3 Tbs. Cumin-Tahini Dressing
small avocado, sliced 1 Bring 2 cups water to a simmer in medium saucepan. Add lentils, partially cover, reduce heat to medium-low, and simmer 20 minutes, or until lentils are tender. Remove from heat, and cool. 2 Toss together kale, goji berries, and sunflower seeds in large bowl. Toss with 3 Tbs. Cumin-Tahini Dressing. Garnish with avocado. PER 3-CUP SERVING 417 CAL; 22 G PROT; 16 G TOTAL FAT (2 G SAT FAT); 52 G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 216 MG SOD; 17 G FIBER; 9 G SUGARS MAKE-AHEAD TIP Dice and add the avocado to kale mixture the day of serving. Salad without the diced avocado will keep up to 6 days in the fridge. ROASTED BROCCOLI NI AND CHICKPEA SALAD SERVES 2 The hearty flavors of cumin, beans, and roasted Broccoiini are offset by a refreshing blend of sweet red cabbage and apple. Shave the cabbage very thin using a mandoline slicer or sharp knife.
lb. Broccoiini, ends trimmed 2 Tbs. Zesty Lemon Vinaigrette (page 46) 1
cups baby spinach 1 cup thinly sliced red cabbage 1 green apple, shredded 2 Tbs. slivered almonds
cup cooked chickpeas, or half a 15-oz. can chickpeas, rinsed and drained 2 green onions, white and light-green parts thinly sliced (1/3 cup) 3 Tbs. Cumin-Tahini Dressing 1 Preheat oven to 425 F. Toss Broccoiini with Zesty Lemon Vinaigrette on baking sheet, and season with salt and pepper, if desired. Cover tightly with foil. Roast 15 minutes. 2 Remove foil, and roast 10 minutes more, or until Broccoiini is tender and partially charred. Cool. Cut stems into halves or thirds. 3 Toss together spinach, cabbage, apples, almonds, chickpeas, and green onions in large bowl. 4 Toss spinach mixture with Broccoiini and 5 Tbs. Cumin-Tahini Dressing. PER 2-CUP SERVING 360 CAL; 12 G PROT; 17 G TOTAL FAT (2 G SAT FAT); 44 G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 335 MG SOD; 12 G FIBER; 18 G SUGARS HOW IT WORKSIn Weekend Whiz, we give you four simple, tasty recipes to make on the weekend (in about 2 to 3 hours) and enjoy throughout the upcoming week. Everything you need is right here, including a shopping list and a cooking timeline. And even if you aren't doing the cooking-on-the-weekend thing, each recipe is great all on its own. Copyright Active Interest Media May 2016
This article was written by Julie Morris from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: GOOD ENOUGH TO EAT
description: Edible flowers add color and flavor to food HAVE YOU EVER swooned over the scent of a rose and thought, "It smells good enough to cat"? Go ahead and nibble. "Humans all over the world have a long history of eating flowers," says Charlie Nardozzi, author of Foodscaping Practical and Innovative Ways to Create an Edible Landscape (Cool Springs Press, 2015), *So earing flowers isn't new-it's just been rediscovered." Edible flowers are everywhere: in flower gardens and along hedgerows, in your herb garden, or growing Up through the lawn. Even some weeds-hello, dandelion petals!-are edible. The flowers of culinary herbs, such as thyme, rosemary, and basil, are always edible, as are the flowers of many vegetables: Radishes, peas, and squash are just a few. Most edible flowers have a mild taste, and their colors and flavors are besr appreciated fresh. The Details RESEARCH Not all flowers are edible: Know what you're eating, and never eat flowers you're unfamiliar with or that have been treated with pesticides. GROW Most edible flowers want sunlight, water, and welldrained soil. They're great in flowerbeds or containers, of course, as well as in the veg - etable garden. PICK Nardozzi recommends harvesting in the morning, when essential oils are at their highest levels. Pick fresh, healthy flowers that are |ust reaching their peak. PREPARE First soak the flowers in a bowl of water to remove bugs and tiny bits of dirt. Remove the pistil and stamens, which have an unpleasant flavor. USE Eat or use to cook immediately. You can refrigerate for a short time, but for the most part, fresh flowers and petals don't keep Five with Flower Power BORAGE(BORAGO OFFICINALIS) The flavor of these tiny, star-shaped flowers is cucumberlike, good in salads and cold soups, and lovely added to lemonade or seltzer CHIVE (ALLIUM SCHOENOPRASUM) The lavender blossoms are oniony, but mild. Pull the florets apart and sprinkle them over soups, salads, and egg dishes. NASTURTIUM (TROPAEOLUM MAJUS) This flower has a peppery tang. The leaves as well as the brilliant orange, red, and yellow flowers add zing to salads and sandwiches. PANSY (VIOLA x WITTROCKIANA) Pansies have a gentle wintergreen flavor. Often candied and used to decorate cakes* the flowers also dress up fruit salads. ROSE (ROSA) The fragrance is the flavor; darker petals have a stronger flavor Use the petals, first cutting off the bitter white tips. Sprinkle on desserts or float In drinks. There se Ciesinski has written for Garden Design. This Old House, and Coastal Home magazines, Houzz.COm. o. She was an editor at Organic Gardening magazine, and lives and gardens in Southeastern Pennsylvania. Copyright Active Interest Media May 2016
This article was written by Therese Ciesinski from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Superfood Snack Chips
description: There's a snack-chip revolution in the works, with healthy, whole-food products popping up on supermarket shelves everywhere. VT enlisted regular contributor and Superfood Situeks author Julie Morris to create a homemade chip recipe to rival those store-bought options. Made from pured vegetables, seeds, grains, and spices, these snacks are dried and crisped in a dehydrator. The slow -cook dehydrating method allows for lower fat content and zero filler (not even flour! ), so you can nourish your crunchy cravings, guilt free.
VEGETABLE QUINOA CHIPS
MAKES 64 CHIPS
Thin and light, yet sturdy enough to plunge into a favorite dip, the irresistible high protein chips prove that big crunch realty does come in small packages. You can store the chips for several weeks at room temperature in a sealed container.
1 cup quinoa, rinsed and drained
2 medium yellow bell peppers, chapped (2 cups)
2 stalks celery, chopped (1/2 cup)
1/4 cup ground flaxseeds
2 Tbs. chia seeds, optional
1 Tbs. nutritional yeast flakes
1 Tbs. olive oil
2 tsp. onion powder
1/2 tsp. sait, plus extra for sprinkling, optional
1. Bring quinoa and 2 cups water to a boil in saucepan over high heat. Reduce heat to medium-low. and cook, without stirring, 15 minutes or until quinoa is tender and water has evaporated. Let stand 5 minutes, and then fluff with a fork.
2. Pure bell peppers, celery, flaxseed meal, chia seeds (if using), nutritional yeast, olive oil, onion powder, and salt in food processor until liquefied and smooth. Add quinoa, and blend 1 minute-mixture should be smooth but with some texture remaining.
3. Line 2 dehydrator trays with nonstick dehydrator sheets or parchment paper coated with oil or cooking spray. Spread quinoa mixture on sheets all the way to edge in smoothest layer possible. Score each sheet into 32 triangles by pressing knife blade into quinoa mixture without dragging knife. Sprinkle lightly with salt (if using),
4. Race trays in dehydrator and dehydrate at 145F overnight (about 8 to 10 hours) Snap into triangles, If mixture still has soft spots, flip chips over and dehydrate! hour more.
PER SERVING (8 CHIPS) 128 CAL; 5 G PROT; 5 G TOTAL FAT (<1 G SAT FAT); 18 G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 132 MG SOD; 3 G FIBER; <1G SUGARS
Copyright Active Interest Media May 2016
This article was written by Julie Morris from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: WHY MULCH IS A MUST
description: Mulch protects your plants and maxes gardening a breeze HAVE YOU HEARD about a miracle product that saves you from having to constantly weed and water your garden, and builds up soil while you do nothing? Sounds like hype, right? Well, believe it or not, mulch is all that and more. Covering your garden beds with mulch blocks light from reaching weeds so they can't grow, plus keeps the topsoil from baking into a hard crust in the sun. And, as it decomposes, mulch pumps up your soil's fertility. Choosing the right mulch for your purposes is easy, too. Here's what you need to know: Vegetable Beds WHAT Dry grass clippings, fallen leaves, and pine needles are ideal for mulching your veggie garden because they allow rainfall to percolate through to plants' roots while shielding the soil from direct sunlight. Plus, they break down into nutrients that plants can absorb from the soil. Be sure the grass clippings come from lawns that are not treated with chemicals so they don't poison your crops. You can also use organic straw purchased from a local farm. HOW Spread a 4-inch-deep layer atop your garden beds and continually replenish it as the mulch breaks down. Cover the soil when you plant seedlings or after seeds you've sown have sprouted. Soil should be warm-not cold or frozen-before mulching, and you should weed it first. Ideally, you'll add the mulch after a rain. Trees and Shrubs WHAT A barrier of hardwood or bark mulch protects trees and shrubs from the encroachment of lawn mowers and weed whackers HOW Spread a 3-inch layer of mulch, but don't mound it up around the tree or shrub trunk, because it will give shelter to bark-chewing rodents. Pathways WHAT To block weeds from coming up In your garden path, roll out an old carpet (ideally made of a natural mate - rial like wool) atop your pathway. Then, top if off with a few inches of pea gravel or shredded hardwood for aesthetics. HOW Wait until the soil has dried out to lay the carpet, so it isn't soggy for weeks. Flower Beds WHAT Grass, leaves, and straw are equally effective in ornamental gardens, but they are not Very attractive. Shredded hardwood or pine-bark chips, available in bulk or bags, obstruct weedsand conserve moisture, all while giving your beds a more finished appearance. HOW Wood breaks down slowly so you only need to spread a 3-inch-deep layer of mulch once, at the start of growing season. Start with a bottom layer of grass or leaves and top it off with wood mulch. Scott Meyer is editorial director of Blue Root Media, author of The City Homesteader (Running Press, 20V), and former editor of Organic Gardening magazine. He lives with his wife and two children and tends his small but productive garden at his home near Philadelphia. Copyright Active Interest Media May 2016
This article was written by Scott Meyer from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: TELL VT
description: What is your favorite food to bring to a celebration? Hot and bubbly artichoke-spinach-garlic dip.- Mary Godwin Slow-cooker vindaloo arid brown rice. I go to a lot of gatherings where nobody makes anything for vegetarians or vegans. Funnily enough, the vindaloo and brown rice are always gone at the end of the night-and I make a double batch! - Peggy Ince The Szechuan Black-Eyed Pea Salad that was featured in VT's Readers' Top-Rated Recipes special edition. I made it New Year's Day, and it was a huge hit! - Kathy Rogers Find Kathy's favorite recipe at vegetariantimes.com/recipe/szechuan-black-eyed-pea-salad. Orzo pasta salad with colorful veggles. beans. Italian seasoning, and dressing. -Marie Salom Homemade hurnmus with crudits, and BBQ jackfruit sliders with homemade coleslaw. -Ted Miller Vegetable enchiladas. -LaWondo Dean Ghana masala-great recipe for a crowd. -Linda Gross Mediterranean pasta salad, a true family/friends favorite. -Nanci Lawson Homemade salsa. -Heather Weiss Knowlton Tell us what you're cooking at facebook.com/ vegetariantimesrnag JOIN US ONLINE FACEBOOK.COMJVEGflARIANTIMESPIAG @VEGT1MES PINTERESTcOM/WGIIMES INSTAGRAM.COM/VEGeuroTARIANTIMESMAO Copyright Active Interest Media May 2016
This article was written by Anonymous from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: SUPERFOOD SNACK CHIPS
description: Homemade Whole-Grain GoodnessDehydrated quinoa crisps nicely into healthy nibbles THERE'S A SNACK-CHIP revolution in the works, with healthy, whole-food products popping up on supermarket shelves everywhere. VT enlisted regular contributor and Superfood Situeks author Julie Morris to create a homemade chip recipe to rival those store-bought options. Made from pured vegetables, seeds, grains, and spices, these snacks are dried and crisped in a dehydrator. The slow -cook dehydrating method allows for lower fat content and zero filler (not even flour! ), so you can nourish your crunchy cravings, guilt free. VEGETABLE QUINOA CHIPS MAKES 64 CHIPS Thin and light, yet sturdy enough to plunge into a favorite dip, the irresistible highprotefn chips prove that big crunch realty does come in small packages. You can store the chips for several weeks at room temperature in a sealed container. 1 cup quinoa, rinsed and drained 2 medium yellow bell peppers, chapped (2 cups) 2 stalks celery, chopped (V? cup) '/* cup ground flaxseeds 2 Tbs. chia seeds, optional 1 Tbs. nutritional yeast flakes 1 Tbs. olive oil 2 tsp. onion powder Vi tsp. sait, plus extra for sprinkling, optional 1 Bring quinoa and 2 cups water to a boil in saucepan over high heat. Reduce heat to medium-low. and cook, without stirring, 15 minutes or until quinoa is tender and water has evaporated. Let stand 5 minutes, and then fluff with a fork. 2 Pure bell peppers, celery, flaxseed meal, chia seeds (if using), nutritional yeast, olive oil, onion powder, and salt in food processor until liquefied and smooth. Add quinoa, and blend 1 minute-mixture should be smooth but with some texture remaining. 3 Line 2 dehydrator trays with nonstick dehydrator sheets or parchment paper coated with oil or cooking spray. Spread quinoa mixture on sheets all the way to edge in smoothest layer possible. Score each sheet into 32 triangles by pressing knife blade into quinoa mixture without dragging knife. Sprinkle lightly with salt (if using), 4 Race trays in dehydrator and dehydrate at 145F overnight (about 8 to 10 hours) Snap into triangles, If mixture still has soft spots, flip chips over and dehydrate! hour more. PER SERVING (8 CHIPS) 128 CAL; S G PROT; S G TOTAL FAT (<1 G SAT FAT); 18 G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 132 MG SOD; 3 G FIBER; <1G SUGARS
-- Copyright Active Interest Media May 2016
This article was written by Julie Morris from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: M.I. NUTRIENTS
description: The nutrient trio of magnesium, EPA and DHA, and vitamin E is often overlooked, but with some easy dietary tweaks, you can get what you need BETWEJEN MAKING SURE to eat enough fiber and trying not to skimp on iron and calcium, we vegetarians and vegans can unknowingly miss out on less-known but equally key nutrients: magnesium, EPA and DHA, and vitamin E. And coming up short could negatively impact our health. Here's how to easily include them in your diet. MAGNESIUM REQUIREMENT 400 mg daily for adult men 310-320 mg for women Consider magnesium the Renaissance man of minerals-it's a key player in hundreds of biochemical reactions in our bodies affecting nerve, muscle, heart, and bone function, as well as blood-sugar control. So poor intake over the long haul could put you at risk for a host of ills, including diabetes, heart disease, stroke, unhealthy cholesterol numbers, fragile bones, depression, and even migraines. And based on magnesium's role in energy production within our cells, low levels could contribute to general fatigue. COMING UP SHORT It's a bleak picture when it comes to this MVP of the mineral world. About half of Americans aren't taking in the minimum recommended amount. Why? "Processed, packaged foods too often edge out the whole foods where magnesium is predominantly found," says Sharon Palmer, RDN, author of Plant-Powered for Life. Case in point: When a whole grain is refined, the magnesium-containing germ and bran are removed-leaving behind a plate of pasta bereft of the mineral. GET WHAT YOU NEED Palmer says that magnesium is found in many high-fiber foods, such as legumes, whole grains, nuts, seeds, potatoes, and dark greens like spinach and broccoli. Chocoholics can rejoice that cocoa is a surprisingly good source, as well. POWER FOOD PUMPKIN SEEDS 1 ounce = 150 mg Sprinkle these little magnesium powerhouses on oatmeal, salads, yogurt, roasted vegetables, ans soups, or blend them into a pesto. EPA AND DHA REQUIREMENT There aren't yet any official EPA and DHA recommendations, but at least 250 mg a day is the likely minimum amount needed to confer adequate disease protection. The duo of EPA (eicosapentaenoic acid) and DHA (docosahexaenoic acid) comprises long-chain omega-3 fats that have proven to be allies in the fight against heart disease, cognitive decline, depression, and osteoporosis. Both are important structural components of cell membranes. COMING UP SHORT Unfortunately for vegetarians, the best sources of EPA and DHA are fatty fish like salmon, sardines, and mackerel. While ALA (alpha-linolenic acid, an omega-3 found in plants) can be converted in the body to EPA and DHA, many vegetarians and vegans still don't consume high-enough amounts of ALA to make up for the generally low conversion rate. GET WHAT YOU NEED In the absence of a direct source of EPA and DHA, Palmer encourages boosting your ALA intake: "The more ALA you start with, the more EPA and DHA you'll end up with," she says. Increasing ALA consumption also serves to tip your omega-3-toomega-6 ratio toward omega-3s, for better conversion. High-ALA edibles include chia seeds, flaxseed, flax oil, hemp seeds, canola oil, and walnuts. POWERHOOD GROUND FLAXSEED 1 tablespoon = 1.6 grams ALA Sneak this omega stalwart into cooked cereals, smoothies, pancakes, and even homemade bread or pizza crust. VITAMIN E REQUIREMENT 15 mg daily for adults Vitamin E is a moniker given to a group of fat-soluble compounds that possess antioxidant powers. "Food sources of antioxidants, such as vitamins C and E and phytochemicals, have been shown to reduce the cell-damaging effects of free radicals in the body, which may help protect against heart disease, cancer, mental decline, and even cataracts," says Palmer. COMING UP SHORT More than 80 percent of American adults aren't getting the vitamin E they need for optimal health. "Vitamin E is often present in higher-fat foods like vegetable oils, seeds, and nuts, so vegetarians following an extremely low-fat diet can be at risk for low intakes," Palmer says. GET WHAT YOU NEED To top up your vitamin E stores, scatter higher-fat foods like nuts, nut butters, seeds, avocado, and culinary oils (e.g., olive or flax oil) on dishes throughout the day. Made by isolating the nutrient-rich germ from wheat when it's refined, inexpensive wheat germ also delivers healthy amounts. POWER FOOD HAZELNUT OIL 1 tablespoon = 6.4 mg Use this toasty oil to enliven saiad dressings, pestos, dips, steamed greens, and pasta. Or use it to add a nutty nuance to homemade granola. SUPPLEMENTS TO TRY MAGNESIUM Natural Vitality Natural Calm Plus Calcium drink $46.95/16 oz.; naturalvitality.com The Vitamin Shoppe Calm Zone Magnsium: Raspberry Lemon Flavor $11.99/8 oz. powder; vitaminshoppe.com EPA and DHA Deva Vegan Omega-3 DHA-EPA $29.99/90 500 mg caps; devanutrition.com Nature Made 100% Vegetarian Omega-3 EPA+DHA $28.99/60 540 mg caps; naturemade.com VITAMIN E Deva Vegan Vitamin E $27.99/90 400 IU vegan caps; devanutrition.com Solgar Vitamin E $17/100 400 IU vegetarian softgels; solgar.com -Nicole Gregory By Matthew Kadey, MS, RD. Matthew Kadey is a Canada-based registered dietitian. Copyright Active Interest Media May 2016
This article was written by Matthew Kadey from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: ROOT-TO-FROND COOKING
description: Use every last bit of those luscious spring veggies! VEGETARIANS ARE USED to thinking hard about where our food comes from, but what about where it goes? Increasingly, ecologists are urging eaters to look not just upstream, but also down. The scraps we throw away are a huge problem- but also a huge opportunity. When you put your waste stream on a diet, you'll save money and green your kitchen, plus you just might discover that that veggie part you've been tossing out for years is your new favorite ingredient. BEETS OPEN-FACED BEET SANDWICHES WITH GOAT CHEESE AND BEET-TOP PESTO SERVES 8 I 30 MINUTES OR LESS No need to peel the beets here; They roast up quickly when sliced, and you won't mind the strips of skins. As for the tops-why toss them? The sweet, leafy greens can be cooked like spinach or chard. Here, they're whirred into a pesto that's assertive the moment it's made but mellows deliciously as it sits. If you can't find beet tops, substitute 2 cups Swiss chard. To make the sandwich vegan, you can swap in almond butter for the goat cheese. 4 medium beets, including tops 'A cup plus 1 Tbs. olive oil, divided 2A cup walnuts, toasted and cooled 2 cloves garlic, peeled 8 oval slices of peasant bread, toasted 4 oz. fresh chvre goat cheese, at room temperature 1 Preheat oven to 425F. Trim beets, and cut stems from beet greens. Reserve leaves of beet greens. Slice beets crosswise into '4-inch-thick slices. Lay in single layer on baking sheet, drizzle with 1 Tbs. olive oil, and season with salt and pepper, if desired. Roast 20 minutes, flipping halfway through. 2 Meanwhile, pulse beet greens, walnuts, garlic, and A cup olive oil 20 seconds, or until pesto forms. Season with salt and pepper, if desired. 3 Spread each slice of toasted bread with Vi oz. goat cheese, top with several beet rounds, and dollop with 2 Tbs. pesto. PER SANDWICH 306 CAL; 7 G PROT; 25 G TOTAL FAT (5 G SAT FAT); 16 G CARB; 7 MG CHOL; 237 MG SOD; 2 G FIBER; 4 G SUGARS WANT TO LEARN MORE? Root-to-frond cooking is covered in depth in Foundations of Plant-Based Nutrition, W?s online course taught by Natural Gourmet institute director of nutrition Kayleen St. John. To learn more about the certificate course and using whole veggies in your cooking, go to vegetariantimes.com/ nutrition. ROOT TO-FROND REVOLUTION In March 2015, New York's famed Blue Hill restaurant proved that so-called food waste can be something else: delicious. At "wastED," an 18-day popup held in the three-star restaurant, the menu showcased ingredients that were otherwise bound for the compost pile, such as carrot peels, bok choy stems, pineapple cores, pasta-dough trimmings, and even coffee grounds. Chefs transformed this "waste" into dishes that drew crowds, and soon there were lines down the block to eat things most of us unthinkingly toss. Blue Hill's culinary director, Adam Kaye, points out that entire cuisines are based on thrifty, root-to-frond cooking-like saving celery-root peels to simmer into consomm. To get ideas for the pop-up, he gave the Blue Hill bins an audit and found many edibles worthy of the table, not the trash can. Kaye says it's easy to give your home kitchen a similar audit, and then find mouthwatering ways to cook those cauliflower cores, broccoli stems, pea pods, leek tops, and mushroom ends. TURNIPS RED LENTILS WITH TURNIPS AND THEIR TOPS SERVES 6 I 30 MINUTES OR LESS Turnip eaters often toss the tops, unaware that they're a vitamin powerhouse akin to kale. Here, both the turnip root and greens are simmered into an Indian-inspired one-pot dinner. Serve with a crusty loaf of Italian bread to sop up every last bit. If your turnips don't come with greens, substitute 2 cups turnip or mustard greens. 3 Tbs. olive oil, plus more for drizzling 2 medium yellow onions, diced (4 cups) 2 tsp. whole cumin seeds 2 tsp. ground coriander 1 tsp. red pepper flakes 3 medium turnips, roots scrubbed and diced, tops trimmed, divided 1 1/2 cups dried red lentils 2 doves garlic, minced (2 tsp.) 5 cups low-sodium vegetable broth 1 cup cilantro leaves, chopped 2 Tbs. lemon juice 1 Heat oil in medium saucepan over medium heat. Add onion, cumin, coriander, and red pepper flakes, and season with salt, if desired. Saut 8 minutes, or until onion is translucent. 2 Add diced turnips, lentils, and garlic. Stir in broth. Bring to a boil, reduce heat to mediumlow, and simmer, covered, 15 minutes. 3 Stir in turnip tops, and simmer, covered, 5 minutes more. 4 Remove from heat, and stir in cilantro and lemon juice. PER 1-CUP SERVING 307 CAL; 15 G PROT; 7 G TOTAL FAT (1G SAT FAT); 47 G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 177 MG SOD; 7 G FIBER; 11G SUGARS / cf CARROTS COUSCOUS WITH CARROTS, CARROT TOPS, AND MAPLE-LEMON DRESSING SERVES 6 | 30 MINUTES OR LESS Yes. carrot tops are edible Save the stalks for stock, but use the feathery leaves in pesto, soup, or even just as an herb like their close cousin, parsley. Here, a quick blanching softens the leaves up a bit before they're tossed with the roasted roots in a maplelemon dressing with just a kick of cayenne. If you buy the carrots well before you'll be cooking-them, remove the tops and store separately, or they'll pull moisture from the roots. Roasted Carrot Couscous 2 lbs. corrots. with tops (no need to peel); carrots sliced, tops reserved, divided 1 medium red onion, sliced into rings 1/4 cup olive oil 1/3 cup couscous 1/2 cup toasted, slivered almonds Dressing 3 Tbs. olive oil 2 Tbs. maple syrup 2 Tbs. lemon juice 1/4 tsp. cayenne pepper 1 To make Roasted Carrot Couscous Preheat oven to 425*F. Toss carrots ond onion with olive oil in large bowl, and season with salt, if desired. Spread on lorge baking sheet. Roast 25 minutes, or until tender. 2 Meanwhite, bring 1 cup water to a boil. Chop 1/4 cup tender carrot-top leaves (discord stems) and add to boiling water. Soil I minute, then pour mixture over couscous in medium bowl. Cover, and let stand 5 minutes. 3 To make Dressing: Shake together all ingredients in small jar. 4 Stir roasted carrots and almonds into couscous, then toss with Dressing. PER 1 1/2-CUP SERVING 332 CAL; S G PROT; 20 G TOTAL FAT (3 G SAT FAT); 34 G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 79 MG SOD; 8 G FIBER; II G SUGARS BUTTERNUT SQUASH BITTER GREENS SALAD WITH BUTTERNUT SQUASH AND ROASTED SEEDS SERVES 4 I 30 MINUTES OR LESS You're probably used to discarding seeds when you cook butternut squash. But in Austria, many people do just the opposite, ignoring the sweet orange flesh in favor of the prized, protein-rich seeds. This recipe uses both to best advantage, but don't just save the seds for sprinkling on salad. Any time you're cooking winter squash, roast the seeds with a bit of oil and salt, and perhaps a sprinkle of cayenne, until golden and crispy. They make for a great, energydense snack. Squash Salad 1 butternut squash 2 Tbs. olive oil, divided 1 tsp. salt, divided 5 cups arugula or watercress 1/2 cup dried cherries Dressing 1/3 cup olive oil 1 1/2 Tbs. balsamic vinegar 1 clove garlic, minced 0 tsp.) 1 To make Squash Salad: Preheat oven to 425*F. Peel and halve squash, scoop out and rinse seeds, and toss seeds with 1 Tbs. olive oil and 1/2 tsp. salt. Spread in single layer on baking sheet, and roast 25 minutes, or until seeds are golden and crunchy. 2 Meanwhile, peel and cut squash into 1-inch cubes, transfer to separate baking sheet, toss with 1 Tbs. olive oil, and season with salt, if desired. Roast 20 minutes, or until fork-tender, turning halfway through. 3 To make Dressing: Shake together all ingredients in small jar. 4 Place greens in large salad bowl and mix in half of Dressing. Cool squash on pan 5 minutes, then spoon over salad, garnishing with seeds and dried fruit. Drizzle with remaining Dressing. PER 2-CUP SERVING 248 CAL; 2 G PROT; 20 G TOTAL FAT (3 G SAT FAT); 17 G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 409 MG SOD; 6 G FIBER; 6 G SUGARS PARSNIP PARSNIP PURE WITH SUNNY-SIDE-UP EGGS AND PAN-PRIED PEELS SERVES 4 I 30 MINUTES OR LESS Parsnips are gaining traction as the root-cellar's starchy star. You could make this dish with whole, unpeeled parsnips, but frying up their skins only takes a few seconds, yielding a sweet crunch that's the perfect finishing touch to the comforting, silky-smooth pure. 1 lb. parsnips, scrubbed 1 cup low-fat milk 1 Tbs, butter 1 clove garlic, peeled and smashed 2 Tbs. olive oil 4 eggs 1 Skin parsnips, reserving peels. Roughly chop roots, and place in small saucepan with milk, butter, and garlic. Bring to boil, reduce heat to medium-low, and simmer 20 minutes, or until parsnips are soft. 2 Cut parsnip peels into 2-inch pieces. Heat 2 Tbs. oil in skillet over medium heat. Add parsnip peels in a single layer (you might need to work In batches). Cook 15 seconds, or until peels are golden and crispy but not dark brown, then transfer to paper towel and sprinkle with salt. If desired. Set skillet aside. 3 Pure parsnips in blender, and season with salt and pepper, if desired. 4 Reheat skillet over medium-low heat. Fry eggs in oil remaining in skillet 2 at a time until whites are set, with yolks to desired doneness. Divide parsnip pure among 4 plates, top each with 1 egg, and sprinkle with parsnip peels. PER SERVING (1 EGG WITH 1 CUP PARSNIP PURE) 275 CAL; 10 G PROT; 18 G TOTAL FAT (5 G SAT FAT); 23 G CARS; 195 MG CHOL; 156 MG SOD; 5 G FIBER; 10 G SUGARS Copyright Active Interest Media May 2016
This article was written by Gabrielle Langholtz from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: GET COOKING!
description: Cookware essentials for every vegetarian cookCan't decide which pots and pans you really need? Here's our guide to the best stovetop cookware for foolproof vegetarian cooking. ESSENTIAL EQUIPMENT If you only have room for a few new pots and pans, go with these: 1 CALPHALON SIGNATURE NONSTICK STOCK POT Why you need it
A stainless-steel stock pot with a clear-glass lid lets you easily monitor what you're cooking, without having to constantly peek inside and lose heat. No need to go huge-our favorite is just the right size for making double batches of freezer-friendly meatless recipes. Best for
Boiling pasta and potatoes; making DIY broth and soup for a crowd Buy it
8-quart/$149.99, colphalon.com 2 DEMEYERE 5-PLUS SAUCEPAN Why you need it
It's worth splurging on a truly heavy-duty saucepan that heats up quickly and evenly, and that you'll use every day for years to come. Bonus points for having a long handle that stays cool. If you're cooking for one or two people, the 2-quart size works well. Best for
Reducing sauces; cooking side dishes and small batches of grains Buy it
2-quart/$179.99, zwillingonline.com 3 FAGOR INNOVA PRESSURE COOKER Why you need it
You con cook just about anything-from fluffy brown rice to meltingly tender kale-in record time using this stovetop pressure cooker, which has a convenient automatic pressure release. Consider it your secret weapon for speedy, fuss-free dinners. Best for
Steaming big bunches of greens; cooking dried beans Buy It
6-quart/$139.95. willtams-sonoma.com 4 LODGE RUST RESISTANT CAST-IRON SKILLET Why you need it
Inexpensive and virtually indestructible, this trusty pan gets super hot and stays that way, ensuring a crunchy golden crust on fried rice and tofu. You can even toss it in the dishwasher occasionally, thanks too new heat treatment that inhibits rust. Best for
Pan-roasting veggies; toasting spices; stir-frying without a wok Buy it
9-inch/$54.99, macys.com 5 STAUB WHITE COCOTTE Why you need It
Sturdy enough to last for generations, this enameled cast-iron Dutch oven can go straight from stovetop to oven to table for pretty one-pot meals-and cleanup is a cinch. Plus, "patina' stains that develop over time won't show on the matte black interior. Best for
Braising veggies; slow-cooking soups and stews Buy it
5.5-quart/$299.95, surlatable.com CHEFS' PICKS Want to cook like the pros? Here, a few of the country's top veg chefs share their most beloved pieces of cookware: "I love a thin, cheap wok from an Aslan market," says Rich Landau, chef at and co-owner of the Philadelphia restaurant Vedge. "I want very little space between my fire and what I'm cooking. The intense heat you get in an authentic wok produces a great char on your veggies." "My favorite is our All-Clad panini pan," says Bryant Terry, author of Afro-Vegan. "We use it for a lot of things: grilling toast for breakfast, making pressed sandwiches for our daughters, and finishing off blanched vegetables, giving them nice grill marks." "A cast-iron grill pan is a necessity to get that charred, meaty flavor into everything from asparagus to tofu," says Isa Chandra Moskowitz, chef at and owner of Modern Love restaurant in Omaha, NE. "I love that it doesn't take much more than olive oil, salt, and pepper to achieve perfect grill lines and deep, smoky flavor." Staff Faves SWAP OUT YOUR OLD NONSTICK COOKWARE FOR ONE OF THESE PFOA-FREE SKILLETS* 1 Oxo Good Grips Non-Stick Pro Open Fry pan This budget option has comfy-tohold silicone handles that won't get hot 8-inch/$29.99, oxo.com 2 Zwilling Madura Plus Nonstick Fry Pan You can use your metal spatula on this dishwasher-safe pan without fear of scratching the nonstick surface. 10-inch/$49, food52.com 3 All-Clad NS1 Nonstick Induction Fry Pan, Set of 2 We love that these are oven safe (up to500F) and can be used on any type of cooktop, including induction. Set of 2 (8- and 10-inch)/$79.95, williams-sonoma.com NONSTICK OR NOT? Nonstick pans are undeniably handy for cooking messy, sticky foods like scrambled eggs and pancakes with minimal butter or oil But should you be worried about their safety? In 2005, science advisors to the Environmental Protection Agency warned that perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) -the chemical once used to make the popular nonstick coating Teflon-could be a human carcinogen. Rest easy "There's no evidence that nonstick pans play a major role in affecting cancer risk," says Karen Collins, MS, RDN, nutrition advisor to the American Institute for Cancer Research. "What's in the pan is more important than the pan. Nutrients and phytochemicals in vegetables, fruits, whole grains, and beans may provide important protection by reducing the damage from the many carcinogens to which we are exposed in doily life." Besides, many companies (including DuPont, which manufactures Teflon) have phased out PFOA from their nonstick cookware. The bigger concern, says Collins, is the potential for nonstick coatings like Teflon to break down and release toxic fumes when heated above 500F, Studies show that these fumes con couse mild flulike symptoms in humans and even be fatal to birds. Fortunately, there's rarely occasion to cook food at 500F (especially if it's meat free), so chances are you're in the clear. Need added assurance? Follow these four simple rules for cooking safely with nonstick: "THERE'S NO EVIDENCE THAT NONSTICK PANS PLAV A MAJOR ROLE IN AFFECTING CANCER RISK." DO cook only at low or medium heat. Reserve high-heat cooking for your cast-iron or stainlesssteel skillet. DO ventilate your kitchen and use your stove's exhaust fan. DONT heat an empty pan, which can raise the temperature too high. Instead, add ingredients first, then crank up the flame. DONT leave your pan unattended on the stove. Tami Fertig is a food writer based on the East Coast and a former associate editor at Vegetarian Times. BONUS BUVS These extra-credit appliances make cooking for busy weeknights a whole lot easier: SLOW COOKER Throw together a few ingredients in the morning, and you'll have piping-hot stew or chili 8 hours later. Try: Breville Fast Slow Pro, $249.99, brevilleusa.com RICE COOKER A rice cooker isn't just for rice-use it to make tender oatmeal, quinoa, risotto, and more. Try: Zojirushi Rice Cooker and Warmer, $149.95, surlatable.com Copyright Active Interest Media May 2016
This article was written by Tami Fertig and Tami Fertig from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: Sauce Sensation
description: Freshen up your weeknight pasta routine wi th a collection of light, easy sauces GARLICKY GREENS SAUCE SERVES 4 | 30 MINUTES OR LESS Silky bitter greens plus sweet, chewy dried currants are a favorite Southern Italian pasta pairing. The bite-sized greens and small dried fruit work well with a pound of farfalle, or bowtie pasta. If you can't find dandelion greens, try mustard greens or baby kale. 3 lbs. olive oil 6 cloves garlic, minced (2 Tbs.) 4 cups (1 bunch) dandelion greens, torn into bite-sized pieces
cup plus 2 Tbs. dried currants
cup grated Parmesan cheese Heat olive oil in large skillet over medium heat Add garlic and cook 2 minutes, or until softened but not browned, stirring occasionally. Add dandelion greens, and season with salt, if desired; cook 2 minutes to wilt. Remove from heat, and stir in currants and Parmesan. Toss with hot pasta. PER -CUP SERVING 180 CAL; 4 G PROT; 12 G TOTAL FAT (2 G SAT FAT); 17 G CARB; 4 MG CHOL; 134 MG SOO; 3 G FIBER; 10 G SUGARS
SWEET CORN, CARAMELIZED SHALLOTS, AND SPINACH SAUCE SERVES 4 | 30 MINUTES OR LESS Golden corn and deeply cooked shallots add subtle sweetness that's complemented by tangy goat cheese in this easy earlysummer sauce. Serve over one pound of a medium-sized pasta, such as casarecce.
cup (4 Tbs.) olive oil 3 large shallots, thinly sliced (2 cups) 1
cups fresh or frozen yellow corn kernels 4 cups baby spinach leaves 4 oz. soft goat cheese 1 Cook pasta according to package directions. Drain, and reserve V* cup cooking water. 2 While pasta is cooking, heat 2 Tbs. olive oil in large skillet or Dutch oven over mediumhigh heat. Add shallots, season with salt, if desired, and cook 5 minutes, or until lightly browned In places, stirring frequently. Reduce heat to medium, and cook 3 to 5 minutes more, or until shallots are very soft. Add com kernels and season with salt and pepper, if desired. Cook 2 minutes. Add spinach and
cup reserved pasta-cooking water, and cook 2 to 3 minutes, or until spinach is wilted. Serve over pasta, and dot with goat cheese. PER -CUP SERVING 320 CAL; 11G PROT; 20 G TOTAL FAT (6 G SAT FAT); 27 G CARB; 13 MG CHOL; 193 MG SOD; 5 G FIBER; 10 G SUGARS
BROTHY BRAISEDCAULIFLOWER SAUCE SERVES 4 | 30 MINUTES OR LESS This couldn't-be-simpler sauce delivers big on taste, thanks to lightly toasting the tomato paste before adding the other saucy ingredients. Yellow onion lends sweetness to the broth, and parsley (or any fresh green herb) delivers a bright, fresh ending. Serve with 12 ounces of cooked pasta shells or macaroni. 2 Tbs. tomato paste
large onion, finely chopped (1
cups) 4 cups finely chopped cauliflower florets 3 cups low-sodium vegetable broth
cup Italian parsley leaves Heat Dutch oven or large saucepan over medium heat Add tomato paste and onion, and cook 1 minute, or until tomato paste is fragrant and slightly darkened, stirring constantly. Add cauliflower, broth, and 1 Vt cups water, stirring to scrape up tomato paste from bottom of pot. Bring to a boil, reduce heat to medium-low, and simmer 6 to 8 minutes, or until cauliflower is tender. Stir in parsley leaves, and serve over pasta. PER 1 -CUP SERVING 70 CAL; 3 G PROT; <1 G TOTAL FAT (<1 G SAT FAT); 15 G CARS; 0 MG CHOL; 146 MG SOD; 4 G FIBER; 7 G SUGARS ZUCCHINI CARBONARA SAUCE SERVES 4 | 30 MINUTES OR LESS Hot pasta straight from the pot will cook the classic egg-and-cream carbonara combination into a thick sauce that's perfect for coating spaghetti. We've added zucchini for color and crunch. Serve with 8 ounces of spaghetti or linguini. 3 Tbs. pine nuts 1 large egg, plus 1 egg yolk
cup whipping cream 3 Tbs. grated Parmesan cheese, plus more for garnishing 3 small zucchinis, peeled into thin strips with a vegetable peeler (2 cups) 1 Toast pine nuts in small skillet over medium-high heat 3 minutes, or until browned. Transfer to plate to cool. 2 Whisk together egg, egg yolk, cream, and cheese in large serving bowl, and season with salt and pepper, if desired. Stir in zucchini and pine nuts. Toss with hot pasta, adding 1 to 2 Tbs. water or pasta-cooking water if necessary to obtain desired sauce consistency. PER -CUP SERVING 157 CAL; 6 G PROT; 14 G TOTAL FAT (5 G SAT FAT); 5 G CARB; 116 MG CHOL; 100 MG SOD; 5 G FIBER; 3 G SUGARS
GINGER-TOMATO SAUCE WITH CARROT MATCHSTICKS SERVES 4 | 30 MINUTES OR LESS While most tomato sauces get their kick from fresh garlic, this one substitutes fresh ginger for a similar punch that's a natural match for sweet, tender spring carrots. Ribbons of pappardelle pasta (one 8-ounce package) will turn the light sauce into a hearty meal. 2 Tbs. olive oil 4 large carrots 0 lb.), cut into matchsticks 1
tsp. grated fresh ginger 1 28-oz. can whole peeled tomatoes, crushed well by hand
cup loosely packed fresh basil leaves, divided Heat oil in Dutch oven on medium-high. Add carrots, and season with salt, if desired. Cook 5 minutes, stirring once or twice, or until carrots are crisp-tender and lightly browned. Stir in ginger, then tomatoes and 3 lorge basil leaves. Bring to a simmer, reduce heat to medium-low, and cook 10 to 12 minutes, or until carrots are fork-tender. Stir in remaining basil leaves. PER -CUP SERVING 143 CAL; 3 G PROT; 7 G TOTAL FAT (<1 G SAT FAT); 18 G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 493 MG SOD; 5 G FIBER; 10 G SUGARS
SKINNY PASTAHere's an easy trick to cut down on carbs and boost nutrients in your favorite pasta dishes Substitute yellow squash or zucchini noodles for half of the cooked pasta you'd ordinarily use. For a recipe that calls for 1 lb. pasta, use only 8 oz. and add two cups of thin, peeled yellow squash or zucchini strips to the cooked, drained noodles, The heat of the pasta will soften the squash to the perfect consistency. Copyright Active Interest Media May 2016
This article was written by Stacy Adimando from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: GET COOKING!
description: Cookware essentials for every vegetarian cookCan't decide which pots and pans you really need? Here's our guide to the best stovetop cookware for foolproof vegetarian cooking. ESSENTIAL EQUIPMENT If you only have room for a few new pots and pans, go with these: 1 CALPHALON SIGNATURE NONSTICK STOCK POT Why you need it
A stainless-steel stock pot with a clear-glass lid lets you easily monitor what you're cooking, without having to constantly peek inside and lose heat. No need to go huge-our favorite is just the right size for making double batches of freezer-friendly meatless recipes. Best for
Boiling pasta and potatoes; making DIY broth and soup for a crowd Buy it
8-quart/$149.99, colphalon.com 2 DEMEYERE 5-PLUS SAUCEPAN Why you need it
It's worth splurging on a truly heavy-duty saucepan that heats up quickly and evenly, and that you'll use every day for years to come. Bonus points for having a long handle that stays cool. If you're cooking for one or two people, the 2-quart size works well. Best for
Reducing sauces; cooking side dishes and small batches of grains Buy it
2-quart/$179.99, zwillingonline.com 3 FAGOR INNOVA PRESSURE COOKER Why you need it
You con cook just about anything-from fluffy brown rice to meltingly tender kale-in record time using this stovetop pressure cooker, which has a convenient automatic pressure release. Consider it your secret weapon for speedy, fuss-free dinners. Best for
Steaming big bunches of greens; cooking dried beans Buy It
6-quart/$139.95. willtams-sonoma.com 4 LODGE RUST RESISTANT CAST-IRON SKILLET Why you need it
Inexpensive and virtually indestructible, this trusty pan gets super hot and stays that way, ensuring a crunchy golden crust on fried rice and tofu. You can even toss it in the dishwasher occasionally, thanks too new heat treatment that inhibits rust. Best for
Pan-roasting veggies; toasting spices; stir-frying without a wok Buy it
9-inch/$54.99, macys.com 5 STAUB WHITE COCOTTE Why you need It
Sturdy enough to last for generations, this enameled cast-iron Dutch oven can go straight from stovetop to oven to table for pretty one-pot meals-and cleanup is a cinch. Plus, "patina' stains that develop over time won't show on the matte black interior. Best for
Braising veggies; slow-cooking soups and stews Buy it
5.5-quart/$299.95, surlatable.com CHEFS' PICKS Want to cook like the pros? Here, a few of the country's top veg chefs share their most beloved pieces of cookware: "I love a thin, cheap wok from an Aslan market," says Rich Landau, chef at and co-owner of the Philadelphia restaurant Vedge. "I want very little space between my fire and what I'm cooking. The intense heat you get in an authentic wok produces a great char on your veggies." "My favorite is our All-Clad panini pan," says Bryant Terry, author of Afro-Vegan. "We use it for a lot of things: grilling toast for breakfast, making pressed sandwiches for our daughters, and finishing off blanched vegetables, giving them nice grill marks." "A cast-iron grill pan is a necessity to get that charred, meaty flavor into everything from asparagus to tofu," says Isa Chandra Moskowitz, chef at and owner of Modern Love restaurant in Omaha, NE. "I love that it doesn't take much more than olive oil, salt, and pepper to achieve perfect grill lines and deep, smoky flavor." Staff Faves SWAP OUT YOUR OLD NONSTICK COOKWARE FOR ONE OF THESE PFOA-FREE SKILLETS* 1 Oxo Good Grips Non-Stick Pro Open Fry pan This budget option has comfy-tohold silicone handles that won't get hot 8-inch/$29.99, oxo.com 2 Zwilling Madura Plus Nonstick Fry Pan You can use your metal spatula on this dishwasher-safe pan without fear of scratching the nonstick surface. 10-inch/$49, food52.com 3 All-Clad NS1 Nonstick Induction Fry Pan, Set of 2 We love that these are oven safe (up to500F) and can be used on any type of cooktop, including induction. Set of 2 (8- and 10-inch)/$79.95, williams-sonoma.com NONSTICK OR NOT? Nonstick pans are undeniably handy for cooking messy, sticky foods like scrambled eggs and pancakes with minimal butter or oil But should you be worried about their safety? In 2005, science advisors to the Environmental Protection Agency warned that perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) -the chemical once used to make the popular nonstick coating Teflon-could be a human carcinogen. Rest easy "There's no evidence that nonstick pans play a major role in affecting cancer risk," says Karen Collins, MS, RDN, nutrition advisor to the American Institute for Cancer Research. "What's in the pan is more important than the pan. Nutrients and phytochemicals in vegetables, fruits, whole grains, and beans may provide important protection by reducing the damage from the many carcinogens to which we are exposed in doily life." Besides, many companies (including DuPont, which manufactures Teflon) have phased out PFOA from their nonstick cookware. The bigger concern, says Collins, is the potential for nonstick coatings like Teflon to break down and release toxic fumes when heated above 500F, Studies show that these fumes con couse mild flulike symptoms in humans and even be fatal to birds. Fortunately, there's rarely occasion to cook food at 500F (especially if it's meat free), so chances are you're in the clear. Need added assurance? Follow these four simple rules for cooking safely with nonstick: "THERE'S NO EVIDENCE THAT NONSTICK PANS PLAV A MAJOR ROLE IN AFFECTING CANCER RISK." DO cook only at low or medium heat. Reserve high-heat cooking for your cast-iron or stainlesssteel skillet. DO ventilate your kitchen and use your stove's exhaust fan. DONT heat an empty pan, which can raise the temperature too high. Instead, add ingredients first, then crank up the flame. DONT leave your pan unattended on the stove. Tami Fertig is a food writer based on the East Coast and a former associate editor at Vegetarian Times. BONUS BUVS These extra-credit appliances make cooking for busy weeknights a whole lot easier: SLOW COOKER Throw together a few ingredients in the morning, and you'll have piping-hot stew or chili 8 hours later. Try: Breville Fast Slow Pro, $249.99, brevilleusa.com RICE COOKER A rice cooker isn't just for rice-use it to make tender oatmeal, quinoa, risotto, and more. Try: Zojirushi Rice Cooker and Warmer, $149.95, surlatable.com Copyright Active Interest Media May 2016
This article was written by Tami Fertig and Tami Fertig from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: MUSHROOM MANIA
description: Get in on the 'shroom bounty as the fabulous fungi, return this spring to farmers' markets FOR MUSHROOM LOVERS, spring means that locally grown specialty mushrooms reappear at farmers'markets and in natural food stores. Plump, chewy shiitakes; meaty king trumpets; slender, runchy enokis; rare, delicate morels; and feathery maitakes are the pick of the crop. Check out the five easy mushroom-marvelous recipes on the following pages. SHIITAKE MUSHROOM CROQUE MONSIEUR MAKES 4 SANDWICHES Shiitake mushrooms replace ham in this classic French caf sandwich 4
Tbs. butter, divided, plus additional soft butter for spreading 1
pounds shiitake mushrooms. stemmed and sliced
cup finely chopped shallots 1
Tbs. all-purpose flour 1
cups 1X milk
cup plus 8 tsp. finely grated Parmesan cheese, divided 2 pinches ground nutmeg 8 slices country white bread 1 cup coarsely grated Swiss cheese (3 ounces) 1 Melt 3 Tbs. butter in large nonstick skillet over medium-high heot. Add mushrooms and shallots, and saut 10 to 12 minutes, or until mushrooms are deep brown. Season generously with salt and pepper, if desired. Transfer to plate to cool. 2 Melt remaining 1 A Tbs. butter in heavy medium saucepan over medium-low heat. Add flour and stir until mixture bubbles. Whisk in milk. Boil 1 minute, or until thickened, whisking constantly. Remove from heat. Stir in 'A cup Parmesan and nutmeg. Season with salt and pepper, if desired. Set aside. 3 Butter 1 side of each of 8 bread slices. Place 4 slices buttered-side down on large baking sheet. Top each with 54 mushroom mixture, then sprinkle each with '4 cup Swiss cheese. Top with remaining bread slices, buttered-side up. 4 Preheat broiler. Heat large nonstick skillet over medium-high heat. Add 2 sandwiches, and cook 3 minutes per side, or until browned. Repeat with remaining sandwiches, and return sandwiches to baking sheet 5 Spoon sauce over sandwiches, spreading to edges. Sprinkle each with 2 tsp. Parmesan. Broil 3 to 5 minutes, until bubbling and brown in spots, monitoring carefully. Transfer sandwiches to plates with spatula. PER SANDWICH 622 CAL. 21 G PROT; 33 G TOTAL FAT 09 G SAT FAT); 61G CARB; 85 MG CHOL, 823 MG SOD; 5 G FIBER; 10 G SUGARS SHIITAKE Thin-capped shiitakes may be available in supermarkets year-round, but the mass-distributed options offer only a hint of how good the mushrooms can be. Look for shiitakes that are pale, plump, and unwrinkled, with tender stems, and cook at least 10 minutes to remove any astringent flavor. BAG IT! Store fresh mushrooms in a paper bag in the refrigerator to keep them dry and protected from light. KING TRUMPET CARPACCIO WITH AVOCADO, CILANTRO, AND LIME SERVES 6 | 30 MINUTES OR LESS This elegant first course features hearty king trumpet mushrooms, noted for their chewy, meaty texture. When cutting the mushrooms, try to get slices that include both the cap and stem to best showcase the mushroom's shape. Serrano chile adds a spicy kick, while fresh lime juice imparts a bright acidity. Tbs. avocado oil or vegetable oil, plus more for brushing skillet, divided lb. king trumpet mushrooms, sliced 34-inch thick
cup packed fresh cilantro leaves, divided 2 tsp. lime juice 2 serrano chiles, thinly sliced 1 large avocado, thinly sliced Lime wedges, for garnish 1 Heat large nonstick skillet over medium-high heat Brush skillet lightly with oil. 2 Working in batches, add mushrooms in single layer and sear 1 minute per side, or until brown on edges and beginning to soften. Transfer mushrooms to baking sheet to cool. Season with salt and pepper, if desired, and cool. 3 Pure Vi cup cilantro and 5 Tbs. oil in mini food processor until smooth. Strain oil through fine sieve into small bowl, pressing on solids to release as much oil as possible. Mix in lime juice and sliced chile. A Arrange avocado slices on platter. Top with mushrooms in single layer. Drizzle cilantro oil over top. Scatter remaining cilantro leaves over carpaccio. Serve with lime wedges. PER '-CUP SERVING 200 CAL; 4 G PROT; 19 G TOTAL FAT (2 G SAT FAT); 11G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 169 MG SOD; 7 G FIBER; <1G SUGARS O G KING TRUMPET The mild, delicate flavor of king trumpet mushrooms comes as a surprise when you consider their ample size. The large stems and caps hold their shape when roasted or grilled, making them a great meat alternative. Choose king trumpet mushrooms with unblemished creamy-white stems and smooth tan caps. ENOKI SALAD WITH SUGAR SNAP PEAS, CUCUMBER, AND GINGER-PONZU VINAIGRETTE SERVES 6 I 30 MINUTES OR LESS Delicately flavored enoki mushrooms, with their tiny caps and long stems, are featured in a light, refreshing salad with homemade ponzu, a popular citrus-based sauce widely used in Japanese cuisine. Ponzu Vinaigrette 1
Tbs. seasoned rice vinegar 1 Tbs. fresh lemon juice 1 Tbs. avocado oil or peanut oil 1 tsp. low-sodium soy sauce 1 tsp. minced fresh ginger
tsp. sugar
tsp. grated lemon zest Salad 8 cups baby lettuces (3 oz.) 2 Persian cucumbers, sliced 0 cup) 16 sugar snap peas, strings removed, sliced 54-inch thick on a bias 4 radishes, thinly sliced 1 5.3-oz. package enoki mushrooms, root ends trimmed 1 To moke Ponzu Vinaigrette: Whisk together all ingredients in small bowl. 2 To make Salad: Combine all ingredients in large bowl. Toss with Ponzu Vinaigrette, and season with salt and pepper, if desired. PER 154-CUP SERVING 47 CAL; 1G PROT; 2 G TOTAL FAT {<1G SAT FAT); 6 G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 150 MG SOD; 1G FIBER; 2 G SUGARS
ENOKI Be gentle with enoki mushrooms: The delicate, round-capped strands are best when used raw in salads or when added at the last minute to soups and stirfries so that their crunchy texture and bright-white color remain. Sold in bunches, enoki mushrooms should look dry and have a brightwhite color. Trim off the clumped ends and rinse only as much as needed to remove any dirt. SPONSORED TRY THIS For soy sauce flavor that's naturally gluten-free in the Enoki Salad, opt for San-J Organic Tamari, made without wheat FARRO WITH MORELS ASPARAGUS., AND TA GREMOLATA SERVES 6 Morels lend their earthy, smoky flavor to a seasona grain dish featuring fresh asparagus. Look for semipearled farro, which cooks in just 20 minutes, for this recipe. 10 oz. fresh morel mushrooms, cut crosswise into %-inch pieces or 4-OZ. package dried morel mushrooms 4 cups low-sodium vegetable broth 1
cups semi-pearled form 3 Tbs. olive oil, divided 1 small onion, chopped (1 cup) 8 oz. cremini mushrooms, sliced 2 Tbs. chopped fresh Italian parsley 1 Tbs. chopped fresh tarragon 1 garlic clove, minced (1 tsp.) 1 tsp. grated lemon zest
cup coarsely chopped toasted hazelnuts 16 large asparagus, ends trimmed, cut diagonally into 1 Ka-inch-long pieces 1 If using dried morels, bring 1 cup water to boil in small saucepan. Add dried morels; cover, and remove from heat. Let stand 20 minutes. Drain, reserving soaking liquid. Coarsely chop morels. Z Bring vegetable broth and mushroom-soaking liquid or 1 cup water to a boil in medium saucepan. Add farro, reduce heat to medium-low, and cook, uncovered, 15 to 20 minutes, or until just tender but still slightly firm to bite. Drain farro, reserving cooking liquid. 3 Heat 2 Tbs. oil in large nonstick skillet over medium-high heat. Add onion, and saut 1 minute. Add morels and cremini mushrooms, and saut 3 to 5 minutes, or until onions are deep golden and morels begin to crisp. Season with salt and pepper, if desired, and set aside. 4 Stir together parsley, tarragon, garlic, and lemon zest in small bowl; set aside. 5 Heat remaining 1 Tbs. oil in small nonstick skillet over mediumhigh heat Add hazelnuts and saut until heated through. Set aside. D Bring reserved farro-cooking liquid to a boil in a large saucepan. Add asparagus, and cook 2 minutes, or until crisp-tender. Using slotted spoon, transfer asparagus to morel mixture. Add farro, V* cup reserved cooking liquid, and half of gremolata, and toss over medium-high heat until warmed through. 7 Spoon farro into 4 shallow bowls. Spoon reserved cooking liquid around farro, if desired. Sprinkle with hazelnuts and remaining gremolata. PER SERVING 297 CAL; 10 G PROT; 12 G TOTAL FAT (1G SAT FAT); 40 G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 109 MG SOD; 9 G FIBER; 5 G SUGARS
MOREL Spring is high hunting season for morel foragers, and the distinctive-looking wild mushrooms often find their way to farmers' markets. Dried morels offer a year-round alternative. Don't be put off by the high price of this robust-ftavored fungi-a little goes a long way when using them. MISO-ROASTED MAITAKE MUSHROOMS AND EGGPLANT WITH SESAME SEEDS SERVES 4 Maitake mushrooms, also known as hen-of-the-woods, ram's head, or sheep's head mushrooms, have a woodsy, smokey flavor that pairs well with roasted vegetables. 2 Japanese eggplants, quartered lengthwise. cut crosswise 1 '/i-inch thick 3 Tbs. vegetable oil, divided 2 3.5-oz. packages maitake mushrooms, separated into smaller clumps 2 Tbs. white miso 2 Tbs. mirin 1 Tbs. toasted sesame oil 2 tsp. light-brown sugar 2 cloves garlic, minced (2 tsp.) 1
tsp. minced peeled fresh ginger 2 green onions (dark-green parts only), thinly sliced on sharp diagonal 1 tsp. toasted sesame seeds 1 Preheat broiler. Spread eggplant on large, rimmed baking sheet; drizzle with 1 Tbs. oil. turning to coat. Broil eggplant 2 to 3 minutes, or until tender and beginning to brown, about 2 to 3 minutes. 2 Move eggplant to one side of baking sheet Place mushrooms on opposite side of sheet, arranging in single layer. 3 Whisk together remaining 2 Tbs. oil, miso, mirin, sesame oil, sugar, garlic, and ginger in large bowl. Drizzle mixture over eggplant and mushrooms, turning to coot Broil 3 to 5 minutes more. Transfer to serving bowl. Sprinkle with green onions and sesame seeds. PER SERVING 210 CAL; 4 G PROT; 15 G TOTAL FAT (1G SAT FAT); 17 G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 274 MG SOD; 4 G FIBER; 10 G SUGARS
Copyright Active Interest Media May 2016
This article was written by Sarah Tenaglia from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: VEG EXPLORER
description: FEATURED BLOG: With Food + Love withfoodandlove.com Sherrie Castellano is a certified health coach, food writer, and photographer based in St. Louis. The Midwest transplant's blog, With Food + Love, features veg and gluten-free recipes inspired by the seasons, Castellano's travels, and her local produce finds. BASIL-BRUSHED ROASTED ARTICHOKES SERVES 2 Castellano loves artichokes, and.this recipe features a fresh, simpler, lighter twist on the classic flavors of an Italian-styie stuffed choke. The artichoke halves should be eaten leaf-by-leaf, as you would with whole ones. You can then scrape away the tiny inner leaves and chkg spines to eat the heart whole. 2 large globe artichokes 2 Tbs. lemon juice 1 cup packed fresh baslUeaves 2 Tbs. olive oil 2 cloves garlic, peeled
tsp. sea salt, or more to taste
tsp. ground black pepper, or more to taste 1 Preheat oven to 400'F. 2 Soak artichokes in bowl filled with warm water plus 1 Tbs. lemon juice 10 minutes, to draw out excess dirt. Drain, and wash chokes thoroughly. Trim 1 inch off tops, and cut off stem. Trim leaves with kitchen shears, and slice artichokes in half lengthwise. 3 Place artichoke halves in bottom of large pot d add 2 inches water. Bring to boil, reduce heat to * medium-low, cover, and cook 20 to 25 minutes, or until tender. (Artichoke is cooked when outer leaf can be easily removed and inside is tender.) Remove from water with tongs, and set cut-side down on dean dish towel. 4 Pulse basil, olive oil. remaining lemon juice, garlic, salt, and pepper in mini food processor until smooth. Brush cut sides of artichokes with basil spread, and roost cut-side up on baking sheet 10 minutes, or until lightly browned. Serve with remaining ba^il spread, PER SERVING (1 ARTICHOKE) 209 CAL; 6 G PROT; 14 G TOTAL FAT (2 G SAT FAT); 20 G CARB; 0 MG CHOL; 394 MG SOD; 9 G FIBER; 2 G SUGARS Copyright Active Interest Media May 2016
This article was written by Sherrie Castellano from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
Title: GET COOKING!
description: Cookware essentials for every vegetarian cookCan't decide which pots and pans you really need? Here's our guide to the best stovetop cookware for foolproof vegetarian cooking. ESSENTIAL EQUIPMENT If you only have room for a few new pots and pans, go with these: 1 CALPHALON SIGNATURE NONSTICK STOCK POT Why you need it
A stainless-steel stock pot with a clear-glass lid lets you easily monitor what you're cooking, without having to constantly peek inside and lose heat. No need to go huge-our favorite is just the right size for making double batches of freezer-friendly meatless recipes. Best for
Boiling pasta and potatoes; making DIY broth and soup for a crowd Buy it
8-quart/$149.99, colphalon.com 2 DEMEYERE 5-PLUS SAUCEPAN Why you need it
It's worth splurging on a truly heavy-duty saucepan that heats up quickly and evenly, and that you'll use every day for years to come. Bonus points for having a long handle that stays cool. If you're cooking for one or two people, the 2-quart size works well. Best for
Reducing sauces; cooking side dishes and small batches of grains Buy it
2-quart/$179.99, zwillingonline.com 3 FAGOR INNOVA PRESSURE COOKER Why you need it
You con cook just about anything-from fluffy brown rice to meltingly tender kale-in record time using this stovetop pressure cooker, which has a convenient automatic pressure release. Consider it your secret weapon for speedy, fuss-free dinners. Best for
Steaming big bunches of greens; cooking dried beans Buy It
6-quart/$139.95. willtams-sonoma.com 4 LODGE RUST RESISTANT CAST-IRON SKILLET Why you need it
Inexpensive and virtually indestructible, this trusty pan gets super hot and stays that way, ensuring a crunchy golden crust on fried rice and tofu. You can even toss it in the dishwasher occasionally, thanks too new heat treatment that inhibits rust. Best for
Pan-roasting veggies; toasting spices; stir-frying without a wok Buy it
9-inch/$54.99, macys.com 5 STAUB WHITE COCOTTE Why you need It
Sturdy enough to last for generations, this enameled cast-iron Dutch oven can go straight from stovetop to oven to table for pretty one-pot meals-and cleanup is a cinch. Plus, "patina' stains that develop over time won't show on the matte black interior. Best for
Braising veggies; slow-cooking soups and stews Buy it
5.5-quart/$299.95, surlatable.com CHEFS' PICKS Want to cook like the pros? Here, a few of the country's top veg chefs share their most beloved pieces of cookware: "I love a thin, cheap wok from an Aslan market," says Rich Landau, chef at and co-owner of the Philadelphia restaurant Vedge. "I want very little space between my fire and what I'm cooking. The intense heat you get in an authentic wok produces a great char on your veggies." "My favorite is our All-Clad panini pan," says Bryant Terry, author of Afro-Vegan. "We use it for a lot of things: grilling toast for breakfast, making pressed sandwiches for our daughters, and finishing off blanched vegetables, giving them nice grill marks." "A cast-iron grill pan is a necessity to get that charred, meaty flavor into everything from asparagus to tofu," says Isa Chandra Moskowitz, chef at and owner of Modern Love restaurant in Omaha, NE. "I love that it doesn't take much more than olive oil, salt, and pepper to achieve perfect grill lines and deep, smoky flavor." Staff Faves SWAP OUT YOUR OLD NONSTICK COOKWARE FOR ONE OF THESE PFOA-FREE SKILLETS* 1 Oxo Good Grips Non-Stick Pro Open Fry pan This budget option has comfy-tohold silicone handles that won't get hot 8-inch/$29.99, oxo.com 2 Zwilling Madura Plus Nonstick Fry Pan You can use your metal spatula on this dishwasher-safe pan without fear of scratching the nonstick surface. 10-inch/$49, food52.com 3 All-Clad NS1 Nonstick Induction Fry Pan, Set of 2 We love that these are oven safe (up to500F) and can be used on any type of cooktop, including induction. Set of 2 (8- and 10-inch)/$79.95, williams-sonoma.com NONSTICK OR NOT? Nonstick pans are undeniably handy for cooking messy, sticky foods like scrambled eggs and pancakes with minimal butter or oil But should you be worried about their safety? In 2005, science advisors to the Environmental Protection Agency warned that perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) -the chemical once used to make the popular nonstick coating Teflon-could be a human carcinogen. Rest easy "There's no evidence that nonstick pans play a major role in affecting cancer risk," says Karen Collins, MS, RDN, nutrition advisor to the American Institute for Cancer Research. "What's in the pan is more important than the pan. Nutrients and phytochemicals in vegetables, fruits, whole grains, and beans may provide important protection by reducing the damage from the many carcinogens to which we are exposed in doily life." Besides, many companies (including DuPont, which manufactures Teflon) have phased out PFOA from their nonstick cookware. The bigger concern, says Collins, is the potential for nonstick coatings like Teflon to break down and release toxic fumes when heated above 500F, Studies show that these fumes con couse mild flulike symptoms in humans and even be fatal to birds. Fortunately, there's rarely occasion to cook food at 500F (especially if it's meat free), so chances are you're in the clear. Need added assurance? Follow these four simple rules for cooking safely with nonstick: "THERE'S NO EVIDENCE THAT NONSTICK PANS PLAV A MAJOR ROLE IN AFFECTING CANCER RISK." DO cook only at low or medium heat. Reserve high-heat cooking for your cast-iron or stainlesssteel skillet. DO ventilate your kitchen and use your stove's exhaust fan. DONT heat an empty pan, which can raise the temperature too high. Instead, add ingredients first, then crank up the flame. DONT leave your pan unattended on the stove. Tami Fertig is a food writer based on the East Coast and a former associate editor at Vegetarian Times. BONUS BUVS These extra-credit appliances make cooking for busy weeknights a whole lot easier: SLOW COOKER Throw together a few ingredients in the morning, and you'll have piping-hot stew or chili 8 hours later. Try: Breville Fast Slow Pro, $249.99, brevilleusa.com RICE COOKER A rice cooker isn't just for rice-use it to make tender oatmeal, quinoa, risotto, and more. Try: Zojirushi Rice Cooker and Warmer, $149.95, surlatable.com Copyright Active Interest Media May 2016
This article was written by Tami Fertig and Tami Fertig from Vegetarian Times and was legally licensed through the NewsCred publisher network.
